d the ordering of the teams does not matter.b If each team has either two or three students, how many ways are there to form teams?1.4. Possible probability assignmentsSuppose A and B are events for some probability space such that P AB = 0.3 and P AB =0.6. Find the set of possible values of the pair P A, P B and sketch this set, as a subsetof the plane. Hint: It might help to try lling in the probabilities in a Karnaugh map.22CHAPTER 1. FOUNDATIONS1.5. A Karnaugh map for three eventsLet an experiment consist of rolling two fair dice, and dene the following three events aboutthe numbers showing: A =sum is even, B =sum is a multiple of three, and C =thenumber showing on the rst die is strictly less than the number showing on the second die.a Display the outcomes in a three-event Karnaugh map, as in Example 1.4.2.b Find P A  BC.1.6. Displaying outcomes in a two event Karnaugh mapTwo fair dice are rolled. Let A be the event the sum is even and B be the event at least oneof the numbers rolled is three.a Display the outcomes in a Karnaugh map.b Determine P AB.1.7. A three event Karnaugh puzzleSuppose A, B, and C are events such that: P A = P B = P C = 0.3, P AB = 3P ABC,P A  C = P B  C = 0.5, and P AcBcCc = 0.48. Sketch a Karnaugh map showing theprobabilities of ABC, ABCc, . . . , AcBcCc. Show your work.1.8. A classication of students in a classvideo Of 30 students in a class, 12 are not on Facebook 9 are on both Facebook and Twitter 2/3 of students not on Twitter dont have iPads At least one student is neither on Twitter nor on Facebook 3 students on Facebook and having iPads are not on Twitter 2 students are on both Facebook and Twitter and have iPads 2/3 of the students not on Facebook and without iPads are on TwitterFind how many students are not on Twitter, not on Facebook and dont have iPads. Showyour work. Hint: Use a Karnaugh map. Fill in numbers or variables, trying to minimize thenumber of variables and equations needed.1.9. Selecting socks at randomSuppose there are eight socks in a bag, numbered one through eight, which can be groupedinto four pairs: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7, 8. The socks of each pair have the same color;dierent pairs have dierent colors. Suppose there are four distinct! people present, andone at a time, they each draw two socks out of the bag, without replacement. Suppose allsocks feel the same, so when two socks are drawn from the bag, all possibilities have equalprobability. Let M be the event that each person draws a matching pair of socks.1.7. PROBLEMS23a Dene a sample space  for this experiment. Suppose that the order that the peopledraw the socks doesnt matterall that is recorded is which two socks each person selects.b Determine ||, the cardinality of .c Determine the number of outcomes in M.d Find P M .e Find a short way to calculate P M  that doest require nding |M| and ||. Hint: WriteP M  as one over an integer and factor the integer.1.10. Two more poker hands ISuppose ve cards are drawn from a standard 52 card deck of playing cards, as described inExample 1.4.3, with all possibilities being equally likely.a TWO PAIR is the event that two cards both have one number, two other cards bothhave some other number, and the fth card has a number dierent from the other twonumbers. Find P TWO PAIR.b THREE OF A KIND is the event that three of the cards all have the same number, andthe other cards have numbers dierent from each other and dierent from the three withthe same number. Find P THREE OF A KIND.c FOUR OF A KIND is the event that four of the ve cards have the same number. FindP FOUR OF A KIND.1.11. Two more poker hands IISuppose ve cards are drawn from a standard 52 card deck of playing cards, as described inExample 1.4.3, with all possibilities being equally likely.a FLUSH is the event that all ve cards have the same suit. Find P FLUSH.b FOUR OF A KIND is the event that four of the ve cards have the same number. Find1.12. Some identities satised by binomial coecientskk=0kP FOUR OF A KIND.a set of n objects, explain in words why each of the following identities is true. The ideais to identify how to count something two dierent ways. For example, to explain whyvideo Using only the fact that cid:0n2n =cid:80na cid:0nb cid:0nc cid:02ncid:1 is the number of ways to select a set of k objects fromcid:0ncid:1, you could note that 2n is the total number of subsets of a set of n objects,cid:1 for 0  k  n.cid:1 +cid:0n1cid:1 for 1  k  n  1.cid:0ncid:12. Hint: cid:0ncid:12 = cid:0ncid:1cid:0 nbecause there are two choices for each object i.e. include or not include in the set and then choices are independent. The right hand side is also the number of subsets of a set of nobjects, with the kth term being the number of such subsets of cardinality k.cid:1. Consider a set of 2n distinct objects, halfcid:1 =cid:0 ncid:1 =cid:0n1cid:1 = cid:80nnkk1kkknk=0korange and half blue.knkk24l=kk1cid:1 =cid:80nd cid:0nobject selected? For example, if n = 5 and k = 3, the equality becomes cid:05cid:1 +d the ordering of the teams does not matter.b If each team has either two or three students, how many ways are there to form teams?1.4. Possible probability assignmentsSuppose A and B are events for some probability space such that P AB = 0.3 and P AB =0.6. Find the set of possible values of the pair P A, P B and sketch this set, as a subsetof the plane. Hint: It might help to try lling in the probabilities in a Karnaugh map.22CHAPTER 1. FOUNDATIONS1.5. A Karnaugh map for three eventsLet an experiment consist of rolling two fair dice, and dene the following three events aboutthe numbers showing: A =sum is even, B =sum is a multiple of three, and C =thenumber showing on the rst die is strictly less than the number showing on the second die.a Display the outcomes in a three-event Karnaugh map, as in Example 1.4.2.b Find P A  BC.1.6. Displaying outcomes in a two event Karnaugh mapTwo fair dice are rolled. Let A be the event the sum is even and B be the event at least oneof the numbers rolled is three.a Display the outcomes in a Karnaugh map.b Determine P AB.1.7. A three event Karnaugh puzzleSuppose A, B, and C are events such that: P A = P B = P C = 0.3, P AB = 3P ABC,P A  C = P B  C = 0.5, and P AcBcCc = 0.48. Sketch a Karnaugh map showing theprobabilities of ABC, ABCc, . . . , AcBcCc. Show your work.1.8. A classication of students in a classvideo Of 30 students in a class, 12 are not on Facebook 9 are on both Facebook and Twitter 2/3 of students not on Twitter dont have iPads At least one student is neither on Twitter nor on Facebook 3 students on Facebook and having iPads are not on Twitter 2 students are on both Facebook and Twitter and have iPads 2/3 of the students not on Facebook and without iPads are on TwitterFind how many students are not on Twitter, not on Facebook and dont have iPads. Showyour work. Hint: Use a Karnaugh map. Fill in numbers or variables, trying to minimize thenumber of variables and equations needed.1.9. Selecting socks at randomSuppose there are eight socks in a bag, numbered one through eight, which can be groupedinto four pairs: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7, 8. The socks of each pair have the same color;dierent pairs have dierent colors. Suppose there are four distinct! people present, andone at a time, they each draw two socks out of the bag, without replacement. Suppose allsocks feel the same, so when two socks are drawn from the bag, all possibilities have equalprobability. Let M be the event that each person draws a matching pair of socks.1.7. PROBLEMS23a Dene a sample space  for this experiment. Suppose that the order that the peopledraw the socks doesnt matterall that is recorded is which two socks each person selects.b Determine ||, the cardinality of .c Determine the number of outcomes in M.d Find P M .e Find a short way to calculate P M  that doest require nding |M| and ||. Hint: WriteP M  as one over an integer and factor the integer.1.10. Two more poker hands ISuppose ve cards are drawn from a standard 52 card deck of playing cards, as described inExample 1.4.3, with all possibilities being equally likely.a TWO PAIR is the event that two cards both have one number, two other cards bothhave some other number, and the fth card has a number dierent from the other twonumbers. Find P TWO PAIR.b THREE OF A KIND is the event that three of the cards all have the same number, andthe other cards have numbers dierent from each other and dierent from the three withthe same number. Find P THREE OF A KIND.c FOUR OF A KIND is the event that four of the ve cards have the same number. FindP FOUR OF A KIND.1.11. Two more poker hands IISuppose ve cards are drawn from a standard 52 card deck of playing cards, as described inExample 1.4.3, with all possibilities being equally likely.a FLUSH is the event that all ve cards have the same suit. Find P FLUSH.b FOUR OF A KIND is the event that four of the ve cards have the same number. Find1.12. Some identities satised by binomial coecientskk=0kP FOUR OF A KIND.a set of n objects, explain in words why each of the following identities is true. The ideais to identify how to count something two dierent ways. For example, to explain whyvideo Using only the fact that cid:0n2n =cid:80na cid:0nb cid:0nc cid:02ncid:1 is the number of ways to select a set of k objects fromcid:0ncid:1, you could note that 2n is the total number of subsets of a set of n objects,cid:1 for 0  k  n.cid:1 +cid:0n1cid:1 for 1  k  n  1.cid:0ncid:12. Hint: cid:0ncid:12 = cid:0ncid:1cid:0 nbecause there are two choices for each object i.e. include or not include in the set and then choices are independent. The right hand side is also the number of subsets of a set of nobjects, with the kth term being the number of such subsets of cardinality k.cid:1. Consider a set of 2n distinct objects, halfcid:1 =cid:0 ncid:1 =cid:0n1cid:1 = cid:80nnkk1kkknk=0korange and half blue.knkk24l=kk1cid:1 =cid:80nd cid:0nobject selected? For example, if n = 5 and k = 3, the equality becomes cid:05cid:1 +