sistent, if not completely accurate, model.It also oers a commonly used mathematical language for sharing models and calculations.Part of the process of learning to use the language of probability theory is learning classicationsof problems into broad areas. For example, some problems involve nite numbers of possiblealternatives, while others concern real-valued measurements. Many problems involve interaction ofphysically independent processes. Certain laws of nature or mathematics cause some probabilitydistributions, such as the normal bell-shaped distribution often mentioned in popular literature, tofrequently appear. Thus, there is an emphasis in these notes on well-known probability distributionsand why each of them arises frequently in applications.These notes were written for the undergraduate course, ECE 313: Probability with EngineeringApplications, oered by the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Universityof Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The ocial prerequisites of the course ensure that students havehad calculus, including Taylor series expansions, integration over regions in the plane, the use ofpolar coordinates, and some basic linear algebra.The author gratefully acknowledges the students and faculty who have participated in thiscourse through the years. He is particularly grateful to Professor D. V. Sarwate, who rst intro-duced the course, and built up much material for it on the website.B. HajekAugust 2016viiCONTENTS1OrganizationChapter 1 presents an overview of the many applications of probability theory, and then explainsthe basic concepts of a probability model and the axioms commonly assumed of probability models.Often probabilities are assigned to possible outcomes based on symmetry. For example, when a sixsided die is rolled, it is usually assumed that the probability a particular number i shows is 1/6,for 1  i  6. For this reason, we also discuss in Chapter 1 how to determine the sizes of variousnite sets of possible outcomes.Random variables are introduced in Chapter 2 and examined in the context of a nite, orcountably innite, set of possible outcomes. Notions of expectation also known as mean, variance,hypothesis testing, parameter estimation, multiple random variables, and well known probabilitydistributionsPoisson, geometric, and binomial, are covered. The Bernoulli process is considereditprovides a simple setting to discuss a long, even innite, sequence of event times, and provides atie between the binomial and geometric probability distributions.The focus shifts in Chapter 3 from discrete-type random variables to continuous-type randomvariables. The chapter takes advantage of many parallels and connections between discrete-typeand continuous-type random variables. The most important well known continuous-type distribu-tions are covered: uniform, exponential, and normal also known as Gaussian. Poisson processesare introducedthey are continuous-time limits of the Bernoulli processes described in Chapter2. Parameter estimation and binary hypothesis testing are covered for continuous-type randomvariables in this chapter as they are for discrete-type random variables in Chapter 2.Chapter 4 considers groups of random variables, with an emphasis on two random variables.Topics include describing the joint distribution of two random variables, covariance and correla-tion coecient, and prediction or estimation of one random variable given observation of another.Somewhat more advanced notions from calculus come in here, in order to deal with joint probabilitydensities, entailing, for example, integration over regions in two dimensions.Short answer questions and problems can be found at the end of each chapter with answers tothe questions and even numbered problems provided in the appendix. Most of the short answerquestions also have video links to solutions which should open if you click on video in the pdfversion of these notes, if you have a browser and internet connection. A brief wrap up is givenin Chapter 5. A small number of other videos are provided for examples. These videos are notmeant to substitute for reading the notes; it is recommended students attempt solving problemsand watch the videos afterwards if needed.2CONTENTSChapter 1Foundations1.1 Embracing uncertaintyWe survive and thrive in an uncertain world. What are some uses of probability in everyday life?In engineering? Below is an incomplete list: Call centers and other stang problems: Experts with dierent backgrounds are neededto sta telephone call centers for major nancial investment companies, travel reservationservices, and consumer product support. Management must decide the number of sta and themix of expertise so as to meet availability and waiting time targets. A similar problem is facedby large consulting service companies, hiring consultants that can be grouped into multipleoverlapping teams for dierent projects. The basic problem is to weigh future uncertaindemand against stang costs. Elec