is sampling without replacement.a What is the probability that you get a pair of shoes?b What is the probability of getting one left shoe and one right shoe?Suppose now that n  2 and that you choose 3 shoes at random from the bag.c What is the probability that you have a pair of shoes among the three that you havepicked?d What is the probability that you picked at least one left shoe and at least one right shoe?2.5. Mean and standard deviation of a complicated random variableUse a spreadsheet program, Matlab, programmable calculator, or your favorite computerlanguage for this problem. Suppose two fair dice are rolled independently, so the samplespace is  = i, j : 1  i  6, 1  j  6 and all outcomes are equally likely. Let X be therandom variable dened by Xi, j = i  j2  |2i  j|.a Calculate EX. Hint: This is just the average of the 36 values of X.b Calculate EX 2. Hint: This is just the average of the 36 values of X 2.c Using your answers to a and b, calculate the standard deviation of X. Note: If youwere to apply the STDEV function of the Excel spreadsheet to the list of 36 values ofX, you would not get the standard deviation of X, because the STDEV function is forestimating the standard deviation from n samples, and it uses what is called the n  1rule. The STDEVP function returns the correct value, and can be used for you to checkyour answer.d Find the pmf of X, pX k, for k = 0, 1, 2. Note: In principle, you could compute thecomplete pmf of X and use it to do a and b above, but the hints for a and b,based on the law of the unconscious statistician LOTUS, give a much simpler way todo a and b.2.6. Mean and standard deviation of two simple random variablesSuppose two fair dice are rolled independently, so the sample space is = i, j : 1  i  6, 1  j  6 and all outcomes are equally likely. Let X be the numbershowing on the rst die, Xi, j = i, and let Y be the minimum of the two numbers showing,Y i, j = mini, j.a Derive the pmf of X and sketch it.2.14. PROBLEMS79b Find the mean, EX, and standard deviation, X , of X. Correct numerical answers arene, but show your work.c Derive the pmf of Y and sketch it.d Find the mean EY  and standard deviation, Y , of Y . Correct numerical answers arene, but show your work. Hint: It may be helpful to use a spreadsheet or computerprogram.e Which is larger, X or Y ? Is that consistent with your sketches of the pmfs?f The random variable X takes values in the set 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Specify another pmf onthe same set which has a larger standard deviation than X.2.7. Up to ve rounds of double or nothingA gambler initially having one chip participates in up to ve rounds of gambling. In eachround, the gambler bets all of her chips, and with probability one half, she wins, therebydoubling the number of chips she has, and with probability one half, she loses all her chips.Let X denote the number of chips the gambler has after ve rounds, and let Y denotethe maximum number of chips the gambler ever has with stopping after ve rounds. Forexample, if the gambler wins in the rst three rounds and loses in the fourth, Y = 8. If thegambler loses in the rst round, Y = 1.a Find the pmf, mean, and variance of X.b Find the pmf, mean, and variance of Y.2.8. Selecting supply for a random demandA reseller reserves and prepays for L rooms at a luxury hotel for a special event, at a price ofa dollars per room, and the reseller sells the rooms for b dollars per room, for some known,xed values a and b with 0 < a  b. Letting U denote the number of potential buyers, theactual number of buyers is minU, L and the prot of the reseller is b minU, L  aL. Thereseller must declare L before observing U, but when L is selected the reseller assumes Utakes on the possible values 1, 2, , M, each with probability 1M for some known M  1.a Express the expected prot of the reseller in terms of M, L, a, and b. Simplify your answer. Your answer should be valid whenever 0  L  M ; foras much as possible. For simplicity, without loss of generality, assume 0  L  M.Hint: 1 +  + L = LL+1L = 3 and M = 5 it should reduce to Eprot = 12b25  3a.b Determine the value of L as a function of a, b and M that maximizes the expected prot.2.9. The Zipf distributionThe Zipf distribution has been found to model well the distribution of popularity of itemssuch as books or videos in a library. The Zipf distribution with parameters M and , is thedistribution supported on 1, . . . , M with pmf pk = kZ for 1  k  M , where Z is thek=1 k. The interpretation is thatconstant chosen to make the pmf sum to one, i.e. Z =cid:80M80CHAPTER 2. DISCRETE-TYPE RANDOM VARIABLESif the videos in a library are numbered 1 through M, in order of decreasing popularity, thena random request to view a video would be for video k with probability pk. Light use of acomputer or programable calculator is recommended for this problem.a If X has the Zipf distribution with parameters M = 2000 and  = 0.8 suitable for atypical video library, what is PX  500?b If Y has the Zipf distribut