His brochure boasts that, Onaverage, my clients triple their money in ve weeks! After poring over back issues of theWall Street Journal you learn the truth: at the end of any week, the investments of his clientswill have doubled with probability 0.5, and will have decreased by 50% with probability 0.5.Thus, at the end of the rst week, an initial investment of $32 will be worth either $64 or $16,each with probability 0.5. Performance in any week is independent of performance duringthe other weeks. Anxious to apply your new skills in probability theory, you decide to invest$32, and to let that investment ride for ve weeks in fact, you decide not to even look atthe stock prices until the ve weeks are over. Let the random variable X denote the valuein dollars of your investment at the end of a ve week period.a What are the possible values of X?b What is the pmf of the random variable X?c What is the expected value of X? Is the TV commercial accurate?d What is the probability that you will lose money on your investment?2.19. The power of sampling before assigningA job arriving in a certain cloud computing system must be routed to one of eight servers.Due to the loads, the servers all have dierent rates. Routing the job to the server with thehighest rate would require sampling the rates of all eight servers. Instead, the rates of threerandomly selected distinct servers are sampled all choices being equally likely and the jobis routed to the sampled server with the highest service rate.a Let A be the event the job is assigned to the server with the highest service rate. FindP A.b Let B be the event the job is assigned to one of the four slowest servers. Find P B.c Let C be the event the job is assigned to one of the two servers with the highest rates.Find P C.2.20. Binomial Random VariableAn aircraft has four major subsystems that determine its safety: mechanical, electrical, hy-draulics, and communications. The aircraft will crash if two or more systems fail at the sametime. Assume that each system fails independently with a component probability of failureduring a ight of pc = 103.a What is the probability that the aircraft will crash during a ight?b Assuming that each ight is independent of the others, and each ight has a probabilityof 109 of crashing independent of other ights, how many ights are needed for theprobability of at least one aircraft crashing to reach 0.01%?84CHAPTER 2. DISCRETE-TYPE RANDOM VARIABLESc What should be the component probability of failure pc in order for the aircraft failureprobability to equal 109 as in part b.Geometric and Poisson distributions, Bernoulli processes, MLparameter estimation and condence intervals Sections 2.52.92.21. Probability of a tough committeeA committee of three judges is randomly selected from among ten judges. Four of the tenjudges are tough; the committee is tough if at least two of the judges on the committee aretough. A committee decides whether to approve petitions it receives. A tough committeeapproves 50% of petitions and a committee that is not tough approves 80% of petitions.a Find the probability a committee is tough.b Find the probability a petition is approved.c Suppose a petition can be submitted many times until it is approved. If a petition isapproved with probability 3/4 each time, what is the mean number of times it has to besubmitted until it is approved?d If instead, a petition can be submitted a maximum of three times, and the probabilityof approval each time is 1/4, nd the probability a petition is eventually approved.2.22. Repeated rolls of four dicea Suppose four dice are simultaneously rolled. What is the probability that two even andtwo odd numbers show?b Suppose four dice are repeatedly simultaneously rolled. What is the probability thatstrictly more than three rolls are needed until two even and two odd numbers show onthe same roll? A simultaneous roll of all four dice is counted as one roll.2.23. Time to rst repetitionA fair six-sided die is rolled repeatedly. Each time the die is rolled, the number showing iswritten down. Let X be the number of rolls until the rst time a number shows that wasalready written down. The possible values of X are 2,3,4,5,6, or 7. For each of the followingparts, explain your reasoning and express your answer as a fraction in reduced form.a Find PX > 3.b Find PX = 5.c Find PX = 7|X > 5.2.24. A knockout gameFive distinct numbers are randomly distributed to players numbered 1 through 5. Whenevertwo players compare their numbers, the one with the higher number is declared the winner.Initially, players 1 and 2 compare their numbers; the winner then compares with player 3, and2.14. PROBLEMS85so on. Let X denote the number of times player 1 is a winner. Find PX = 0, PX = 1,and PX = 2. Hint: Your answers should sum to 34 .2.25. Ultimate verdictSuppose each time a certain defendant is given a jury trial for a particular charge such astrying to sell a seat in the US Senate, an innocent verdict is given with proHis brochure boasts that, Onaverage, my clients triple their money in ve weeks! After poring over back issues of theWall Street Journal you learn the truth: at the end of any week, the investments of his clientswill have doubled with probability 0.5, and will have decreased by 50% with probability 0.5.Thus, at the end of the rst week, an initial investment of $32 will be worth either $64 or $16,each with probability 0.5. Performance in any week is independent of performance duringthe other weeks. Anxious to apply your new skills in probability theory, you decide to invest$32, and to let that investment ride for ve weeks in fact, you decide not to even look atthe stock prices until the ve weeks are over. Let the random variable X denote the valuein dollars of your investment at the end of a ve week period.a What are the possible values of X?b What is the pmf of the random variable X?c What is the expected value of X? Is the TV commercial accurate?d What is the probability that you will lose money on your investment?2.19. The power of sampling before assigningA job arriving in a certain cloud computing system must be routed to one of eight servers.Due to the loads, the servers all have dierent rates. Routing the job to the server with thehighest rate would require sampling the rates of all eight servers. Instead, the rates of threerandomly selected distinct servers are sampled all choices being equally likely and the jobis routed to the sampled server with the highest service rate.a Let A be the event the job is assigned to the server with the highest service rate. FindP A.b Let B be the event the job is assigned to one of the four slowest servers. Find P B.c Let C be the event the job is assigned to one of the two servers with the highest rates.Find P C.2.20. Binomial Random VariableAn aircraft has four major subsystems that determine its safety: mechanical, electrical, hy-draulics, and communications. The aircraft will crash if two or more systems fail at the sametime. Assume that each system fails independently with a component probability of failureduring a ight of pc = 103.a What is the probability that the aircraft will crash during a ight?b Assuming that each ight is independent of the others, and each ight has a probabilityof 109 of crashing independent of other ights, how many ights are needed for theprobability of at least one aircraft crashing to reach 0.01%?84CHAPTER 2. DISCRETE-TYPE RANDOM VARIABLESc What should be the component probability of failure pc in order for the aircraft failureprobability to equal 109 as in part b.Geometric and Poisson distributions, Bernoulli processes, MLparameter estimation and condence intervals Sections 2.52.92.21. Probability of a tough committeeA committee of three judges is randomly selected from among ten judges. Four of the tenjudges are tough; the committee is tough if at least two of the judges on the committee aretough. A committee decides whether to approve petitions it receives. A tough committeeapproves 50% of petitions and a committee that is not tough approves 80% of petitions.a Find the probability a committee is tough.b Find the probability a petition is approved.c Suppose a petition can be submitted many times until it is approved. If a petition isapproved with probability 3/4 each time, what is the mean number of times it has to besubmitted until it is approved?d If instead, a petition can be submitted a maximum of three times, and the probabilityof approval each time is 1/4, nd the probability a petition is eventually approved.2.22. Repeated rolls of four dicea Suppose four dice are simultaneously rolled. What is the probability that two even andtwo odd numbers show?b Suppose four dice are repeatedly simultaneously rolled. What is the probability thatstrictly more than three rolls are needed until two even and two odd numbers show onthe same roll? A simultaneous roll of all four dice is counted as one roll.2.23. Time to rst repetitionA fair six-sided die is rolled repeatedly. Each time the die is rolled, the number showing iswritten down. Let X be the number of rolls until the rst time a number shows that wasalready written down. The possible values of X are 2,3,4,5,6, or 7. For each of the followingparts, explain your reasoning and express your answer as a fraction in reduced form.a Find PX > 3.b Find PX = 5.c Find PX = 7|X > 5.2.24. A knockout gameFive distinct numbers are randomly distributed to players numbered 1 through 5. Whenevertwo players compare their numbers, the one with the higher number is declared the winner.Initially, players 1 and 2 compare their numbers; the winner then compares with player 3, and2.14. PROBLEMS85so on. Let X denote the number of times player 1 is a winner. Find PX = 0, PX = 1,and PX = 2. Hint: Your answers should sum to 34 .2.25. Ultimate verdictSuppose each time a certain defendant is given a jury trial for a particular charge such astrying to sell a seat in the US Senate, an innocent verdict is given with pro