bability qI , aguilty verdict is given with probability qG, and a mistrial occurs with probability qM , whereqI , qG, and qM are positive numbers that sum to one. Suppose the prosecutors are determinedto get a guilty or innocent verdict, so that after any number of consecutive mistrials, anothertrial is given. The process ends immediately after the rst trial with a guilty or innocentverdict; appeals are not considered. Let T denote the total number of trials required, and letI denote the event that the verdict for the nal trial is innocent.a Find P I|T = 1. Express your answer in terms of qI and qG.b Find the pmf of T.c Find P I. Express your answer in terms of qI and qG.d Compare your answers to parts a and c. For example, is one always larger than theother?2.26. ML parameter estimation for independent geometrically distributed rvsA certain task needs to be completed n times, where each completion requires multiple at-tempts. Let Li be the number of attempts that are needed to complete the task for the ithtime. Suppose that L1, . . . , Ln are independent and each is geometrically distributed withthe same parameter p, to be estimated.a Suppose it is observed that L1, . . . , Ln = k1, . . . , kn for some particular vector ofpositive integers, k1, . . . , kn. Write the probability i.e. likelihood of this observationas simply as possible in terms of p and k1, . . . , kn. Hint: By the assumed independence,the likelihood factors: PL1, . . . , Ln = k1, . . . , kn = PL1 = k1 PLn = kn.b Find cid:98pM L if it is observed that L1, . . . , Ln = k1, . . . , kn. Simplify your answer asmuch as possible.2.27. Maximum likelihood estimation and the Poisson distributionAn auto insurance company wishes to charge monthly premiums based on an individualsrisk factor. It denes the risk factor as the probability p that individual is involved in a autoaccident during a trip. Assume that whether an accident occurred on one trip is independentof accidents occurring on others, i.e., the insurance company assumes that drivers are recklessand dont learn to be cautious after being in an accident. The insurance company assumesthat each driver will be driving 120 trips a month.a Determine the maximum likelihood estimate of the risk factor pM L if no accidents arereported by a driver in a month. Repeat for the cases when the driver reports 1, 2 and3.b Assume that the actual value of p = 0.01. Compute the approximate values of PX = kfor k = 0, 1, 2, 3 using the Poisson approximation to the binomial distribution, andcompare those approximations to the actual probabilities computed using the binomialdistribution.2.28. Scaling of a condence intervalSuppose the fraction of people in Tokyo in favor of a certain referendum will be estimated bya poll. A condence interval based on the Chebychev bound will be used i.e. the interval isa2 , for some constant a, where cid:98p is thecentered at cid:98p with width an and condence level 1  1fraction of the n people sampled that are in favor of the referendum.a Suppose the width of the condence interval would be 0.1 for sample size n = 300 andsome given condence level. How many samples would be needed instead to yield acondence interval that has only half the width, for the same level of condence?b What is the condence level for the test of part a?c Keeping the width of the condence interval at 0.1 as in a, how many samples wouldbe required for a 96% condence level?2.29. Estimation of signal amplitude for Poisson observationThe number of photons X detected by a particular sensor over a particular time period isassumed to have the Poisson distribution with mean 1 + a2, where a is the amplitude of anincident eld. It is assumed a  0, but otherwise a is unknown.a Find the maximum likelihood estimate,cid:98aM L, of a for the observation X = 6.b Find the maximum likelihood estimate,cid:98aM L, of a given that it is observed X = 0.2.30. Parameter estimation for the binomial distributionSuppose X has the binomial distribution with parameters n and p.a Suppose for this part only p = 0.03 and n = 100. Find the Poisson approximation toPX  2. You may leave one or more powers of e in your answer, but not an innitenumber of terms.b Suppose for this part only p is unknown and n = 10, 000, and based on observation ofX we want to estimate p within 0.025. That is, we will use a condence interval withhalf-width 0.025. Whats the largest condence level we can claim? The condencelevel is the probability, from the viewpoint before X is observed, that the condenceinterval will contain the true value p.c Suppose for this part only it is known that p = 0.03, but n is unknown. The parametern is to be estimated. Suppose it is observed that X = 7. Find the maximum likelihoodestimate nM L. Hint: It is dicult to dierentiate with respect to the integer parametern, so another approach is needed to identify the minimizing value. Think about howa function on the integers behaves near its maximum. How can you tell whether thefunction is incr