tronic circuits: Scaling down the power and energy of electronic circuits reduces thereliability and predictability of many individual elements, but the circuits must neverthelessbe engineered so the overall circuit is reliable. Wireless communication: Wireless links are subject to fading, interference from othertransmitters, doppler spread due to mobility and multipath propagation. The demand, suchas the number of simultaneous users of a particular access point or base station, is also timevarying and not fully known in advance. These and other eects can vary greatly with timeand location, but yet the wireless system must be engineered to meet acceptable call qualityand access probabilities. Medical diagnosis and treatment: Physicians and pharmacologists must estimate themost suitable treatments for patients in the face of uncertainty about the exact condition ofthe patient or the eectiveness of the various treatment options. Spread of infectious diseases: Centers for disease control need to decide whether to insti-tute massive vaccination or other preventative measures in the face of globally threatening,possibly mutating diseases in humans and animals.34CHAPTER 1. FOUNDATIONS Information system reliability and security: System designers must weigh the costsand benets of measures for reliability and security, such as levels of backups and rewalls,in the face of uncertainty about threats from equipment failures or malicious attackers. Evaluation of nancial instruments, portfolio management: Investors and portfoliomanagers form portfolios and devise and evaluate nancial instruments, such as mortgagebacked securities and derivatives, to assess risk and payo in an uncertain nancial environ-ment. Financial investment strategies, venture capital: Individuals raising money for, orinvesting in, startup activities must assess potential payos against costs, in the face ofuncertainties about a particular new technology, competitors, and prospective customers. Modeling complex systems: Models incorporating probability theory have been developedand are continuously being improved for understanding the brain, gene pools within popu-lations, weather and climate forecasts, microelectronic devices, and imaging systems such ascomputer aided tomography CAT scan and radar. In such applications, there are far toomany interacting variables to model in detail, so probabilistic models of aggregate behaviorare useful. Modeling social science: Various groups, from politicians to marketing folks, are interestedin modeling how information spreads through social networks. Much of the modeling in thisarea of social science involves models of how people make decisions in the face of uncertainty. Insurance industry: Actuaries price policies for natural disasters, life insurance, medicalinsurance, disability insurance, liability insurance, and other policies, pertaining to persons,houses, automobiles, oil tankers, aircraft, major concerts, sports stadiums and so on, in theface of much uncertainty about the future. Reservation systems: Electronic reservation systems dynamically set prices for hotel rooms,airline travel, and increasingly for shared resources such as smart cars and electrical powergeneration, in the face of uncertainty about future supply and demand. Reliability of major infrastructures: The electric power grid, including power generat-ing stations, transmission lines, and consumers is a complex system with many redundancies.Still, breakdowns occur, and guidance for investment comes from modeling the most likelysequences of events that could cause outage. Similar planning and analysis is done for com-munication networks, transportation networks, water, and other infrastructure. Games, such as baseball, gambling, and lotteries: Many games involve complex cal-culations with probabilities. For example, a professional baseball pitchers choice of pitchhas a complex interplay with the anticipation of the batter. For another example, computerrankings of sports teams based on win-loss records is a subject of interesting modeling. Commerce, such as online auctions: Sellers post items online auction sites, setting initialprices and possibly hidden reserve prices, without complete knowledge of the total demandfor the objects sold.1.1. EMBRACING UNCERTAINTY5 Online search and advertising: Search engines decide which webpages and which adver-tisements to display in response to queries, without knowing precisely what the viewer isseeking. Personal nancial decisions: Individuals make decisions about major purchases, invest-ments, and insurance, in the presence of uncertainty. Personal lifestyle decisions: Individuals make decisions about diet, exercise, studying forexams, investing in personal relationships, all in the face of uncertainty about such things ashealth, nances, and job opportunities.Hopefully you are convinced that uncertainty is all around us, in our daily lives and in manyprofessions. How can probability theory help us su