e theprobability a eld goal attempt at a home game is successful and pa denote the probability aeld goal attempt at an away game is successful. We assume perhaps this is quite inaccuratethat attempts are successful independently of each other. Wed like to test the hypothesisH1 : ph cid:54= pa vs. hypothesis H0 : ph = pa, based on actual data.4 Specically, the followingstatistics were collected from the teams website, for the games played in November andDecember 2011. There were ve home games and nine away games.eld goals eld goal attemptsshooting percentagehome gamesaway games11921228152142.35%40.70%We take the two numbers of attempts, 281 and 521, as given, and not part of the randomexperiment.a Using the methodology of Section 2.9, use the given data to calculate 95% condenceintervals for ph and for pa. Note: If the two intervals you nd intersect each other,then the accepted scientic methodology would be to say that there is not signicantevidence in the data to reject the null hypothesis, H0. In other words, the experiment isinconclusive.b Suppose an analysis of data similar to this one were conducted, and the two intervalscalculated in part a did not intersect. What statement could we make in support ofhypothesis H1?  Hint: Refer to equation 2.11 of the notes, for which the true value pis xed and arbitrary, and cid:98p = Xn is random.2.39. Detection problem with the geometric distributionThe number of attempts, Y, required for a certain basketball player to make a 25 foot shot,is observed, in order to choose one of the following two hypotheses:H1 outstanding player : Y has the geometric distribution with parameter p = 0.5H0 average player :Y has the geometric distribution with parameter p = 0.2.4This hypothesis testing problem falls outside the scope of Section 2.11, because the hypotheses are compositehypotheses, meaning that they involve one or more unknown parameters. For example, H0 species only that ph = pa,without specifying the numerical value of the probabilities. Problems like this are often faced in scientic experiments.A common methodology is based on the notion of p-value, and on certain functions of the data that are not sensitiveto the parameters, such as in T tests orF tests. While the details are beyond the scope of this course, this problemaims to give some insight into this common problem in scientic data analysis.a Describe the ML decision rule. Express it as directly in terms of Y as possible.b Find pfalse alarm and pmiss for the ML rule.c Describe the MAP decision rule under the assumption that H0 is a priori twice as likelyas H1. Express the rule as directly in terms of Y as possible.d Find the average error probability, pe, for both the ML rule and the MAP rule, using thesame prior distribution given in part c. For which rule is the average error probabilitysmaller?2.40. Hypothesis testing for independent geometrically distributed observationsSuppose L1, . . . , Ln is a vector of independent, geometrically distributed random variables,all with the same parameter p, and there are two hypotheses about p, namely: Under hypoth-esis H0, p = 0.5 and under hypothesis H1, p = 0.25. Let k1, . . . , kn be a vector of positiveintegers, which represents a possible observed value for L1, . . . , Ln.a Describe the maximum likelihood rule for deciding which hypothesis is true. Express itas simply and directly as possible for a given observed vector k1, . . . , kn.b Describe the MAP rule for deciding which hypothesis is true, under the assumption thatthe prior probabilities satisfy 0 = 81. Express it as simply and directly as possible fora given observed vector k1, . . . , kn.2.41. Testing hypotheses about a dieConsider a binary hypothesis testing problem based on observation of n independent rolls ofa die. Let X1, . . . , Xn denote the numbers rolled on the die. Let a denote a known constantthat is slightly greater than one. The two hypotheses are:H0 : the die is fairH1 : for each roll of the die, i shows with probability pi = Cai, where C = 1athe probabilities sum to one.aa7 , so thata Find simple expressions for piu1, . . . , un = P X1 = u1, . . . , Xn = un|Hi for i = 0 andi = 1, where ui  1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 for each i. Express your answers using the variables tk,for 1  k  6, where tk is the number of the n rolls that show k. The vector t1, . . . , t6 iscalled the type vector of u1, . . . , un. Intuitively, the order of the observations shouldntmatter, so decision rules will naturally only depend on the type vector of the observationsequence.b Find a simple expression for the likelihood ratio, u1, . . . , un = p1u1,...,unp0u1,...,un. and de-scribe, as simply as possible, the likelihood ratio test for H1 vs. H0 given the observationsu1, . . . , un.c In particular, suppose that n = 100, t1, . . . , t6 = 18, 12, 13, 19, 18, 20, and a = 1.1.Which hypothesis does the maximum likelihood decision rule select?2.14. PROBLEMS91Reliability Section 2.122.42. The reliability of a hierarchical backup systemCe theprobability a eld goal attempt at a home game is successful and pa denote the probability aeld goal attempt at an away game is successful. We assume perhaps this is quite inaccuratethat attempts are successful independently of each other. Wed like to test the hypothesisH1 : ph cid:54= pa vs. hypothesis H0 : ph = pa, based on actual data.4 Specically, the followingstatistics were collected from the teams website, for the games played in November andDecember 2011. There were ve home games and nine away games.eld goals eld goal attemptsshooting percentagehome gamesaway games11921228152142.35%40.70%We take the two numbers of attempts, 281 and 521, as given, and not part of the randomexperiment.a Using the methodology of Section 2.9, use the given data to calculate 95% condenceintervals for ph and for pa. Note: If the two intervals you nd intersect each other,then the accepted scientic methodology would be to say that there is not signicantevidence in the data to reject the null hypothesis, H0. In other words, the experiment isinconclusive.b Suppose an analysis of data similar to this one were conducted, and the two intervalscalculated in part a did not intersect. What statement could we make in support ofhypothesis H1?  Hint: Refer to equation 2.11 of the notes, for which the true value pis xed and arbitrary, and cid:98p = Xn is random.2.39. Detection problem with the geometric distributionThe number of attempts, Y, required for a certain basketball player to make a 25 foot shot,is observed, in order to choose one of the following two hypotheses:H1 outstanding player : Y has the geometric distribution with parameter p = 0.5H0 average player :Y has the geometric distribution with parameter p = 0.2.4This hypothesis testing problem falls outside the scope of Section 2.11, because the hypotheses are compositehypotheses, meaning that they involve one or more unknown parameters. For example, H0 species only that ph = pa,without specifying the numerical value of the probabilities. Problems like this are often faced in scientic experiments.A common methodology is based on the notion of p-value, and on certain functions of the data that are not sensitiveto the parameters, such as in T tests orF tests. While the details are beyond the scope of this course, this problemaims to give some insight into this common problem in scientic data analysis.a Describe the ML decision rule. Express it as directly in terms of Y as possible.b Find pfalse alarm and pmiss for the ML rule.c Describe the MAP decision rule under the assumption that H0 is a priori twice as likelyas H1. Express the rule as directly in terms of Y as possible.d Find the average error probability, pe, for both the ML rule and the MAP rule, using thesame prior distribution given in part c. For which rule is the average error probabilitysmaller?2.40. Hypothesis testing for independent geometrically distributed observationsSuppose L1, . . . , Ln is a vector of independent, geometrically distributed random variables,all with the same parameter p, and there are two hypotheses about p, namely: Under hypoth-esis H0, p = 0.5 and under hypothesis H1, p = 0.25. Let k1, . . . , kn be a vector of positiveintegers, which represents a possible observed value for L1, . . . , Ln.a Describe the maximum likelihood rule for deciding which hypothesis is true. Express itas simply and directly as possible for a given observed vector k1, . . . , kn.b Describe the MAP rule for deciding which hypothesis is true, under the assumption thatthe prior probabilities satisfy 0 = 81. Express it as simply and directly as possible fora given observed vector k1, . . . , kn.2.41. Testing hypotheses about a dieConsider a binary hypothesis testing problem based on observation of n independent rolls ofa die. Let X1, . . . , Xn denote the numbers rolled on the die. Let a denote a known constantthat is slightly greater than one. The two hypotheses are:H0 : the die is fairH1 : for each roll of the die, i shows with probability pi = Cai, where C = 1athe probabilities sum to one.aa7 , so thata Find simple expressions for piu1, . . . , un = P X1 = u1, . . . , Xn = un|Hi for i = 0 andi = 1, where ui  1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 for each i. Express your answers using the variables tk,for 1  k  6, where tk is the number of the n rolls that show k. The vector t1, . . . , t6 iscalled the type vector of u1, . . . , un. Intuitively, the order of the observations shouldntmatter, so decision rules will naturally only depend on the type vector of the observationsequence.b Find a simple expression for the likelihood ratio, u1, . . . , un = p1u1,...,unp0u1,...,un. and de-scribe, as simply as possible, the likelihood ratio test for H1 vs. H0 given the observationsu1, . . . , un.c In particular, suppose that n = 100, t1, . . . , t6 = 18, 12, 13, 19, 18, 20, and a = 1.1.Which hypothesis does the maximum likelihood decision rule select?2.14. PROBLEMS91Reliability Section 2.122.42. The reliability of a hierarchical backup systemC