onsider a parallel storage system composed of nine subsystems, each of which containsnine servers. Each subsystem can tolerate a single server failure, and the overall system cantolerate a single subsystem failure. Thus, in order for the overall system to fail, there has tobe at least two subsystems that each have at least two server failures. Suppose servers failindependently with probability p.a Find an expression for the exact probability, p0, that a particular subsystem fails, interms of p. Also, compute the numerical value of p0 assuming that p = 0.001.b Find an expression for the exact probability, p1, that the overall system fails, in termsof p0. Also, compute the numerical value of p1 assuming that p = 0.001.c Give an upper bound on p0 and an upper bound on p1 using the union bound, andcompute their numerical values assuming that p = 0.001.2.43. Failure of a cubeSuppose each corner of a three dimensional cube burns out with probability 0.001, indepen-dently of the other corners.a Find a numerical upper bound, using the union bound, on the probability there existstwo neighboring corners that both burn out. Explain your answer.b Find a numerical upper bound, using the union bound, on the probability that two orIt doesnt matter whether the burned outmore corners of the cube both burn out.corners are neighbors. Explain your answer.2.44. Fault detection in a Boolean circuitConsider the Boolean circuit shown, with two AND gates, one OR gate, four binary inputvariables B1, . . . , B4, and binary output variable Y.a Suppose there is a stuck at one fault as shown, so that the value one is always fed intothe second AND gate, instead of the output of the OR gate. Assuming that B1, . . . , B4are independent and equally likely to be zero or one, what is the probability that theoutput value Y is incorrect?b Suppose that the circuit is working correctly with probability 0.5, or has the indicatedstuck at one fault with probability 0.5. Suppose three distinct randomly generated testpatterns are applied to the circuit. Here, a test pattern is a binary sequence of lengthANDstuck at 11B2B3BB4YANDOR92CHAPTER 2. DISCRETE-TYPE RANDOM VARIABLESfour. Assume all sets of three distinct test patterns are equally likely. Given that theoutput is correct on all three of the patterns, what is the conditional probability thecircuit is faulty?2.45. Reliability of three s  t networksConsider s  t networks A through C shown.For each network, suppose that each link fails with probability p, independently of the otherlinks, and suppose network outage occurs if at least one link fails on each path from s to t.Not all the links are labeledfor example, Network A has six links. For simplicity, we supposethat links can only be used in the forward direction, so that the paths with ve links forNetwork B do not count;. Let F denote the event of network outage.a Find P F  in terms of p for Network A, and give the numerical value of P F  forp = 0.001, accurate to within four signicant digits.b This part aims to nd P F  for Network B, using the law of total probability, basedon the partition of the sample space into the events: D0, D1, D2,s, D2,d, D3, D4. Here,Di is the event that exactly i links from among links 1, 2, 3, 4 fail, for i = 0, 1, 3, 4;D2,s is the event that exactly two links from among links 1, 2, 3, 4 fail and they are onthe same side i.e. either links 1 and 2 fail or links 3 and 4 fail; D2,d is the event thatexactly two links from among links 1, 2, 3, 4 fail and they are on dierent sides. Findthe probability of each of these events, nd the conditional probabilities of F given anyone of these events, and nally, nd P F . Express your answers as a function of p, andgive the numerical value of P F  for p = 0.001, accurate to within four signicant digits.c Find the numerical value of P D2,d|F  for p = 0.001.d Find the limit of the ratio of the outage probability for Network B to the outage prob-ability for Network A, as p  0. Explain the limit. Is it zero? Hint: For each network,P F  is a polynomial in p. As p  0, the term with the smallest power of p dominates.e Without doing any detailed calculations, based on the reasoning used in part d, givethe limit of the ratio of the outage probability for Network C to the outage probabilityfor Network A, as p  0. Explain the limit. Is it zero?2.46. Distribution of capacity of an s  t ow networkConsider the following s  t ow network. The link capacities, in units of some quantity perunit time, are shown for links that do not fail. Suppose each link fails with some probabilityp and if a link fails it can carry no ow. Let Y denote the s  t capacity of the network.Network Cts1243ts1243ts1243Network BNetwork A2.14. PROBLEMS93Find the pmf of Y. Express your answer in terms of p. Te facilitate grading, express eachnonzero term of the pmf as a polynomial in p, with terms arranged in increasing powers of p.Hint: What is PY > 0?2.47. Reliability of a fully connected s  t network with ve nodesConsider tonsider a parallel storage system composed of nine subsystems, each of which containsnine servers. Each subsystem can tolerate a single server failure, and the overall system cantolerate a single subsystem failure. Thus, in order for the overall system to fail, there has tobe at least two subsystems that each have at least two server failures. Suppose servers failindependently with probability p.a Find an expression for the exact probability, p0, that a particular subsystem fails, interms of p. Also, compute the numerical value of p0 assuming that p = 0.001.b Find an expression for the exact probability, p1, that the overall system fails, in termsof p0. Also, compute the numerical value of p1 assuming that p = 0.001.c Give an upper bound on p0 and an upper bound on p1 using the union bound, andcompute their numerical values assuming that p = 0.001.2.43. Failure of a cubeSuppose each corner of a three dimensional cube burns out with probability 0.001, indepen-dently of the other corners.a Find a numerical upper bound, using the union bound, on the probability there existstwo neighboring corners that both burn out. Explain your answer.b Find a numerical upper bound, using the union bound, on the probability that two orIt doesnt matter whether the burned outmore corners of the cube both burn out.corners are neighbors. Explain your answer.2.44. Fault detection in a Boolean circuitConsider the Boolean circuit shown, with two AND gates, one OR gate, four binary inputvariables B1, . . . , B4, and binary output variable Y.a Suppose there is a stuck at one fault as shown, so that the value one is always fed intothe second AND gate, instead of the output of the OR gate. Assuming that B1, . . . , B4are independent and equally likely to be zero or one, what is the probability that theoutput value Y is incorrect?b Suppose that the circuit is working correctly with probability 0.5, or has the indicatedstuck at one fault with probability 0.5. Suppose three distinct randomly generated testpatterns are applied to the circuit. Here, a test pattern is a binary sequence of lengthANDstuck at 11B2B3BB4YANDOR92CHAPTER 2. DISCRETE-TYPE RANDOM VARIABLESfour. Assume all sets of three distinct test patterns are equally likely. Given that theoutput is correct on all three of the patterns, what is the conditional probability thecircuit is faulty?2.45. Reliability of three s  t networksConsider s  t networks A through C shown.For each network, suppose that each link fails with probability p, independently of the otherlinks, and suppose network outage occurs if at least one link fails on each path from s to t.Not all the links are labeledfor example, Network A has six links. For simplicity, we supposethat links can only be used in the forward direction, so that the paths with ve links forNetwork B do not count;. Let F denote the event of network outage.a Find P F  in terms of p for Network A, and give the numerical value of P F  forp = 0.001, accurate to within four signicant digits.b This part aims to nd P F  for Network B, using the law of total probability, basedon the partition of the sample space into the events: D0, D1, D2,s, D2,d, D3, D4. Here,Di is the event that exactly i links from among links 1, 2, 3, 4 fail, for i = 0, 1, 3, 4;D2,s is the event that exactly two links from among links 1, 2, 3, 4 fail and they are onthe same side i.e. either links 1 and 2 fail or links 3 and 4 fail; D2,d is the event thatexactly two links from among links 1, 2, 3, 4 fail and they are on dierent sides. Findthe probability of each of these events, nd the conditional probabilities of F given anyone of these events, and nally, nd P F . Express your answers as a function of p, andgive the numerical value of P F  for p = 0.001, accurate to within four signicant digits.c Find the numerical value of P D2,d|F  for p = 0.001.d Find the limit of the ratio of the outage probability for Network B to the outage prob-ability for Network A, as p  0. Explain the limit. Is it zero? Hint: For each network,P F  is a polynomial in p. As p  0, the term with the smallest power of p dominates.e Without doing any detailed calculations, based on the reasoning used in part d, givethe limit of the ratio of the outage probability for Network C to the outage probabilityfor Network A, as p  0. Explain the limit. Is it zero?2.46. Distribution of capacity of an s  t ow networkConsider the following s  t ow network. The link capacities, in units of some quantity perunit time, are shown for links that do not fail. Suppose each link fails with some probabilityp and if a link fails it can carry no ow. Let Y denote the s  t capacity of the network.Network Cts1243ts1243ts1243Network BNetwork A2.14. PROBLEMS93Find the pmf of Y. Express your answer in terms of p. Te facilitate grading, express eachnonzero term of the pmf as a polynomial in p, with terms arranged in increasing powers of p.Hint: What is PY > 0?2.47. Reliability of a fully connected s  t network with ve nodesConsider t