rvive, and even thrive, in the face of suchuncertainty? Probability theory: provides a language for people to discuss/communicate/aggregate knowledgeabout uncertainty. Use of standard deviation is widely used when results of opinion pollsare described. The language of probability theory lets people break down complex problems,and to argue about pieces of them with each other, and then aggregate information aboutsubsystems to analyze a whole system. provides guidance for statistical decision making and estimation or inference. Thetheory provides concrete recommendations about what rules to use in making decisions orinferences, when uncertainty is involved. provides modeling tools and ways to deal with complexity. For complex situations,the theory provides approximations and bounds useful for reducing or dealing with complexitywhen applying the theory.What does probability mean? If I roll a fair six-sided die, what is the probability a six shows?How do I know? What happens if I roll the same die a million times?What does it mean for a weather forecaster to say the probability of rain tomorrow is 30%?Here is one system we could use to better understand a forecaster, based on incentives. Supposethe weather forecaster is paid p in some monetary units, such as hundreds of dollars if she declaresthat the probability of rain tomorrow is p. If it does rain, no more payment is made, either to orfrom the forecaster. If it does not rain, the forecaster keeps the initial payment of p, but she hasto pay  ln1  p. In view of these payment rules, if the weather forecaster believes, based on allthe information she has examined, that the probability of rain tomorrow is q, and if she reportsp, her expected total payo is p + 1  q ln1  p. For q xed this payo is maximized at p = q.That is, the forecaster would maximize the total payo she expects to receive by reporting herbest estimate. Someone receiving her estimate would then have some understanding about whatit meant. See A.H. Murphy and R.L. Winkler 1984. Probability Forecasting in Meteorology,Journal of the American Statistical Association, 79 387, 489500.6CHAPTER 1. FOUNDATIONS1.2 Axioms of probabilityThere are many philosophies about probability. In these notes we do not present or advocate anyone comprehensive philosophy for the meaning and application of probability theory, but we presentthe widely used axiomatic framework. The framework is based on certain reasonable mathematicalaxioms. When faced with a real life example, we use a mathematical model satisfying the axioms.Then we can use properties implied by the axioms to do calculations or perform reasoning aboutthe model, and therefore about the original real life example. A similar approach is often taken inthe study of geometry. Once a set of axioms is accepted, additional properties can be derived fromthem.Before we state the axioms, we discuss a very simple example to introduce some terminology.Suppose we roll a fair die, with each of the numbers one through six represented on a face of the die,and observe which of the numbers shows i.e. comes up on top when the die comes to rest. Thereare six possible outcomes to this experiment, and because of the symmetry we declare that eachshould have equal probability, namely, 1/6. Following tradition, we let  pronounced omegadenote the sample space, which is the set of possible outcomes. For this example, we could take = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Performing the experiment of rolling a fair die corresponds to selecting anoutcome from . An event is a subset of . An event is said to occur or to be true when theexperiment is performed if the outcome is in the event. Each event A has an associated probability,P A. For this experiment, 1 is the event that one shows, and we let P 1 = 1/6. For brevity,we write this as P1 = 1/6. Similarly, we let P2 = P3 = P4 = P5 = P6 = 1/6.But there are other events. For example, we might dene B to be the event that the number thatshows is two or smaller. Equivalently, B = 1, 2. Since B has two outcomes, its reasonable thatP B = 2/6 = 1/3. And E could be the event that the number that shows is even, so E = 2, 4, 6,and P E = 3/6 = 1/2.Starting with two events, such as B and E just considered, we can describe more events usingand and or, where and corresponds to the intersection of events, and or corresponds tothe union of events. This gives rise to the following two events1:the number that shows is two or smaller and even  = BE = 1, 2  2, 4, 6 = 2the number that shows is two or smaller or even = B  E = 1, 2  2, 4, 6 = 1, 2, 4, 6.The probabilities of these events are P BE = 1/6 and P B  E = 4/6 = 2/3. Let O be the eventthat the number that shows is odd, or O = 1, 3, 5. Then:the number that shows is even and odd = EO = 2, 4, 6  1, 3, 5 = the number that shows is even or odd = E  O = 2, 4, 6  1, 3, 5 = .Thus, P EO = 0 and P E  O = 1. This makes sense, because the number that shows cant beboth even and odd, but it is always either even or odd.It is also somervive, and even thrive, in the face of suchuncertainty? Probability theory: provides a language for people to discuss/communicate/aggregate knowledgeabout uncertainty. Use of standard deviation is widely used when results of opinion pollsare described. The language of probability theory lets people break down complex problems,and to argue about pieces of them with each other, and then aggregate information aboutsubsystems to analyze a whole system. provides guidance for statistical decision making and estimation or inference. Thetheory provides concrete recommendations about what rules to use in making decisions orinferences, when uncertainty is involved. provides modeling tools and ways to deal with complexity. For complex situations,the theory provides approximations and bounds useful for reducing or dealing with complexitywhen applying the theory.What does probability mean? If I roll a fair six-sided die, what is the probability a six shows?How do I know? What happens if I roll the same die a million times?What does it mean for a weather forecaster to say the probability of rain tomorrow is 30%?Here is one system we could use to better understand a forecaster, based on incentives. Supposethe weather forecaster is paid p in some monetary units, such as hundreds of dollars if she declaresthat the probability of rain tomorrow is p. If it does rain, no more payment is made, either to orfrom the forecaster. If it does not rain, the forecaster keeps the initial payment of p, but she hasto pay  ln1  p. In view of these payment rules, if the weather forecaster believes, based on allthe information she has examined, that the probability of rain tomorrow is q, and if she reportsp, her expected total payo is p + 1  q ln1  p. For q xed this payo is maximized at p = q.That is, the forecaster would maximize the total payo she expects to receive by reporting herbest estimate. Someone receiving her estimate would then have some understanding about whatit meant. See A.H. Murphy and R.L. Winkler 1984. Probability Forecasting in Meteorology,Journal of the American Statistical Association, 79 387, 489500.6CHAPTER 1. FOUNDATIONS1.2 Axioms of probabilityThere are many philosophies about probability. In these notes we do not present or advocate anyone comprehensive philosophy for the meaning and application of probability theory, but we presentthe widely used axiomatic framework. The framework is based on certain reasonable mathematicalaxioms. When faced with a real life example, we use a mathematical model satisfying the axioms.Then we can use properties implied by the axioms to do calculations or perform reasoning aboutthe model, and therefore about the original real life example. A similar approach is often taken inthe study of geometry. Once a set of axioms is accepted, additional properties can be derived fromthem.Before we state the axioms, we discuss a very simple example to introduce some terminology.Suppose we roll a fair die, with each of the numbers one through six represented on a face of the die,and observe which of the numbers shows i.e. comes up on top when the die comes to rest. Thereare six possible outcomes to this experiment, and because of the symmetry we declare that eachshould have equal probability, namely, 1/6. Following tradition, we let  pronounced omegadenote the sample space, which is the set of possible outcomes. For this example, we could take = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Performing the experiment of rolling a fair die corresponds to selecting anoutcome from . An event is a subset of . An event is said to occur or to be true when theexperiment is performed if the outcome is in the event. Each event A has an associated probability,P A. For this experiment, 1 is the event that one shows, and we let P 1 = 1/6. For brevity,we write this as P1 = 1/6. Similarly, we let P2 = P3 = P4 = P5 = P6 = 1/6.But there are other events. For example, we might dene B to be the event that the number thatshows is two or smaller. Equivalently, B = 1, 2. Since B has two outcomes, its reasonable thatP B = 2/6 = 1/3. And E could be the event that the number that shows is even, so E = 2, 4, 6,and P E = 3/6 = 1/2.Starting with two events, such as B and E just considered, we can describe more events usingand and or, where and corresponds to the intersection of events, and or corresponds tothe union of events. This gives rise to the following two events1:the number that shows is two or smaller and even  = BE = 1, 2  2, 4, 6 = 2the number that shows is two or smaller or even = B  E = 1, 2  2, 4, 6 = 1, 2, 4, 6.The probabilities of these events are P BE = 1/6 and P B  E = 4/6 = 2/3. Let O be the eventthat the number that shows is odd, or O = 1, 3, 5. Then:the number that shows is even and odd = EO = 2, 4, 6  1, 3, 5 = the number that shows is even or odd = E  O = 2, 4, 6  1, 3, 5 = .Thus, P EO = 0 and P E  O = 1. This makes sense, because the number that shows cant beboth even and odd, but it is always either even or odd.It is also some