e probability that the observed value is u. But forcontinuous-type observations, the probability of a specic observation u is zero, for any value of .However, if f is a continuous pdf for each value of , then recall from the interpretation, 3.4, ofa pdf, that for  suciently small, fu  1to the probability that the observation is in an -width interval centered at u, where the constantof proportionality, namely 1 , is the same for all . Following tradition, in this context, we callfu the likelihood of the observation u. The maximum likelihood estimate of  for observationcid:9 . That is, fu is proportionalu, denoted by cid:98M Lu, is dened to be the value of  that maximizes the likelihood, fu, with Pcid:8u  2 < X < u + 2respect to .Example 3.7.1 Suppose a random variable T has the exponential distribution with parameter ,and suppose it is observed that T = t, for some xed value of t. Find the ML estimate,cid:98M Lt, ofSolution: The estimate, cid:98M Lt, is the value of  > 0 that maximizes et with respect to ,, based on the observation T = t.for t xed. Sincethe likelihood is increasing in  for 0    1is maximized at 1t . That is,cid:98M Lt = 1t .detd= 1  tet,t , and it is decreasing in  for   1t , so the likelihoodExample 3.7.2 Suppose it is assumed that X is drawn at random from the uniform distributionon the interval 0, b, where b is a parameter to be estimated. Find the ML estimator of b givenX = u is observed. This is the continuous-type distribution version of Example 2.8.2.Solution: The pdf can be written as fbu = 1b I0ub. Recall that I0ub is the indicatorfunction of 0  u  b, equal to one on that set and equal to zero elsewhere. The whole idea nowis to think of fbu not as a function of u because u is the given observation, but rather, as afunction of b. It is zero if b < u; it jumps up to 1u at b = u; as b increases beyond u the functiondecreases. It is thus maximized at b = u. That is,cid:98bM Lu = u.3.8. FUNCTIONS OF A RANDOM VARIABLE1253.8 Functions of a random variable3.8.1 The distribution of a function of a random variableOften one random variable is a function of another. Suppose Y = gX for some function g anda random variable X with a known pdf, and suppose we want to describe the distribution of Y. Ageneral way to approach this problem is the following three step procedure:Step 1: Scope the problem. Identify the support of X. Sketch the pdf of X and sketch g.Identify the support of Y. Determine whether Y is a continuous-type or discrete-type randomvariable. Then take a breathyouve done very important ground work here.Step 2: Find the CDF of Y. Use the denition of the CDF: For any constant c,FY c = PY  c = PgX  c. In order to nd the probability of the event gX  c,try to describe it in a way that involves X in a simple way. In Step 2 most of the work isusually in nding FY c for values of c that are in the support of Y.Step 3: Dierentiate FY to nd its derivative, which is fY . Typically the pdf gives a moreintuitive idea about the distribution of Y than the CDF.The above three step procedure addresses the case that Y is continuous-type. If the function g ispiecewise constant, such as a quantizer function, then Y is a discrete-type random variable. In thatcase, Steps 2 and 3 should be replaced by the following single step:cid:82Step 2: if Y is discrete-type Find the pmf of Y. Work with the denition of the pmf:pY v = PY = v = PgX = v. In order to nd the probability of the event gX = v,try to describe it in a way that involves X in a simple way. Basically, PgX = v =u:gu=v fX udu Here pY v only needs to be identied for v in the support of Y. Usuallythe pmf is the desired answer and there is no need to nd the CDF.Example 3.8.1 Suppose Y = X 2, where X is a random variable with pdf fX u = e|u|Find the pdf, mean, and variance of Y.2for u  R.Solution: Note that Y = gX, where g is the function gu = u2. Sketches of fX and g areFigure 3.13: The pdf of X and the function g.shown in Figure 3.13. The support of fX is the entire real line, and g maps the real line onto theuXf  uugu126CHAPTER 3. CONTINUOUS-TYPE RANDOM VARIABLESnonnegative reals, so the support of Y is the nonnegative reals. Also, there is no value v such thatPY = v > 0. So Y is a continuous-type random variable and we will nd its CDF. At this pointwe have:cid:26 0FY c =c < 0??? c  0;we must nd FY c for c  0. This completes Step 1, scoping the problem, so we take a breath.Continuing, for c  0,PX 2  c = Pcid:90 cid:90 =cccc  X  cid:90 ccfX udu ==expudu = 1  ec,exp|u|2ducwhere the setup here is illustrated in Figure 3.14. So0Figure 3.14: FX c is area of the shaded region.01  ecid:40 0e2ccc < 0c  0.cc  0c > 0,cid:26FY c =fY c =Finally, taking the derivative of FY using the chain rule of calculus yieldsNote that the value of a pdf at a single point can be changed without changing the integrals of thepdf. In this case we decided to let fY 0 = 0.To nd the mean and variance of Y we could use the pdf just found. However, instead of that,!   cguXuf  uce probability that the observed value is u. But forcontinuous-type observations, the probability of a specic observation u is zero, for any value of .However, if f is a continuous pdf for each value of , then recall from the interpretation, 3.4, ofa pdf, that for  suciently small, fu  1to the probability that the observation is in an -width interval centered at u, where the constantof proportionality, namely 1 , is the same for all . Following tradition, in this context, we callfu the likelihood of the observation u. The maximum likelihood estimate of  for observationcid:9 . That is, fu is proportionalu, denoted by cid:98M Lu, is dened to be the value of  that maximizes the likelihood, fu, with Pcid:8u  2 < X < u + 2respect to .Example 3.7.1 Suppose a random variable T has the exponential distribution with parameter ,and suppose it is observed that T = t, for some xed value of t. Find the ML estimate,cid:98M Lt, ofSolution: The estimate, cid:98M Lt, is the value of  > 0 that maximizes et with respect to ,, based on the observation T = t.for t xed. Sincethe likelihood is increasing in  for 0    1is maximized at 1t . That is,cid:98M Lt = 1t .detd= 1  tet,t , and it is decreasing in  for   1t , so the likelihoodExample 3.7.2 Suppose it is assumed that X is drawn at random from the uniform distributionon the interval 0, b, where b is a parameter to be estimated. Find the ML estimator of b givenX = u is observed. This is the continuous-type distribution version of Example 2.8.2.Solution: The pdf can be written as fbu = 1b I0ub. Recall that I0ub is the indicatorfunction of 0  u  b, equal to one on that set and equal to zero elsewhere. The whole idea nowis to think of fbu not as a function of u because u is the given observation, but rather, as afunction of b. It is zero if b < u; it jumps up to 1u at b = u; as b increases beyond u the functiondecreases. It is thus maximized at b = u. That is,cid:98bM Lu = u.3.8. FUNCTIONS OF A RANDOM VARIABLE1253.8 Functions of a random variable3.8.1 The distribution of a function of a random variableOften one random variable is a function of another. Suppose Y = gX for some function g anda random variable X with a known pdf, and suppose we want to describe the distribution of Y. Ageneral way to approach this problem is the following three step procedure:Step 1: Scope the problem. Identify the support of X. Sketch the pdf of X and sketch g.Identify the support of Y. Determine whether Y is a continuous-type or discrete-type randomvariable. Then take a breathyouve done very important ground work here.Step 2: Find the CDF of Y. Use the denition of the CDF: For any constant c,FY c = PY  c = PgX  c. In order to nd the probability of the event gX  c,try to describe it in a way that involves X in a simple way. In Step 2 most of the work isusually in nding FY c for values of c that are in the support of Y.Step 3: Dierentiate FY to nd its derivative, which is fY . Typically the pdf gives a moreintuitive idea about the distribution of Y than the CDF.The above three step procedure addresses the case that Y is continuous-type. If the function g ispiecewise constant, such as a quantizer function, then Y is a discrete-type random variable. In thatcase, Steps 2 and 3 should be replaced by the following single step:cid:82Step 2: if Y is discrete-type Find the pmf of Y. Work with the denition of the pmf:pY v = PY = v = PgX = v. In order to nd the probability of the event gX = v,try to describe it in a way that involves X in a simple way. Basically, PgX = v =u:gu=v fX udu Here pY v only needs to be identied for v in the support of Y. Usuallythe pmf is the desired answer and there is no need to nd the CDF.Example 3.8.1 Suppose Y = X 2, where X is a random variable with pdf fX u = e|u|Find the pdf, mean, and variance of Y.2for u  R.Solution: Note that Y = gX, where g is the function gu = u2. Sketches of fX and g areFigure 3.13: The pdf of X and the function g.shown in Figure 3.13. The support of fX is the entire real line, and g maps the real line onto theuXf  uugu126CHAPTER 3. CONTINUOUS-TYPE RANDOM VARIABLESnonnegative reals, so the support of Y is the nonnegative reals. Also, there is no value v such thatPY = v > 0. So Y is a continuous-type random variable and we will nd its CDF. At this pointwe have:cid:26 0FY c =c < 0??? c  0;we must nd FY c for c  0. This completes Step 1, scoping the problem, so we take a breath.Continuing, for c  0,PX 2  c = Pcid:90 cid:90 =cccc  X  cid:90 ccfX udu ==expudu = 1  ec,exp|u|2ducwhere the setup here is illustrated in Figure 3.14. So0Figure 3.14: FX c is area of the shaded region.01  ecid:40 0e2ccc < 0c  0.cc  0c > 0,cid:26FY c =fY c =Finally, taking the derivative of FY using the chain rule of calculus yieldsNote that the value of a pdf at a single point can be changed without changing the integrals of thepdf. In this case we decided to let fY 0 = 0.To nd the mean and variance of Y we could use the pdf just found. However, instead of that,!   cguXuf  uc