times useful to refer to an event not being true, which is equivalent to thecomplement of the event being true, where the complement of an event is the set of outcomes not1Here BE is the intersection of sets B and E. It is the same as B  E. See Appendix 6.1 for set notation.1.2. AXIOMS OF PROBABILITY7in the event. For example, the complement of B, written Bc, is the event 3, 4, 5, 6. Then, whenthe die is rolled, either B is true or Bc is true, but not both. That is, B  Bc =  and BBc = .Thus, whatever events we might be interested in initially, we might also want to discuss eventsthat are intersections, unions, or complements of the events given initially. The empty set, , orthe whole space of outcomes, , should be events, because they can naturally arise through takingcomplements and intersections or unions. For example, if A is any event, then A  Ac =  andAAc = . The complement of  is , and vice versa.A bit more terminology is introduced before we describe the axioms precisely. One event is saidto exclude another event if an outcome being in the rst event implies the outcome is not in thesecond event. For example, the event O excludes the event E. Of course, E excludes O as well.Two or more events E1, E2, . . . , En, are said to be mutually exclusive if at most one of the eventscan be true. Equivalently, the events E1, E2, . . . , En are mutually exclusive if EiEj =  wheneveri cid:54= j. That is, the events are disjoint sets. If events E1, E2, . . . , En are mutually exclusive, and ifE1    En = , then the events are said to form a partition of . For example, if A is an event,then A and Ac form a partition of .De Morgans law in the theory of sets is that the complement of the union of two sets is theintersection of the complements. Or vice versa: the complement of the intersection is the union ofthe complements:A  Bc = AcBcABc = Ac  Bc.1.1De Morgans law is easy to verify using the Karnaugh map for two events, shown in Figure 1.1.The idea of the map is that the events AB, ABc, AcB, and AcBc form a partition of . The lowerhalf of the gure indicates the events A, B, and A B, respectively. The only part of  that A BFigure 1.1: Karnaugh map showing how two sets, A and B, partition .does not cover is AcBc, proving the rst version of De Morgans law.The Axioms of Probability The proof of De Morgans law outlined above shows that it is auniversal truth about setsit does not need to be assumed. In contrast, the axioms described nextcABBAccABBAccABBAccBcAAcBAABA BA BABcccBABcA Bc8CHAPTER 1. FOUNDATIONSare intuitively reasonable properties that we require to be true of a probability model. The set ofaxioms together dene what we mean by a valid probability model.An experiment is modeled by a probability space, which is a triplet ,F, P . We will read thistriplet as Omega, Script F, P. The rst component, , is a nonempty set. Each element  of  iscalled an outcome and  is called the sample space. The second component, F, is a set of subsetsof  called events. The nal component, P , of the triplet ,F, P , is a probability measure on F,which assigns a probability, P A, to each event A. The axioms of probability are of two types:event axioms, which are about the set of events F, and probability axioms, which are about theprobability measure P.Event axioms The set of events, F, is required to satisfy the following axioms:Axiom E.1  is an event i.e.   F.Axiom E.2 If A is an event then Ac is an event i.e. if A  F then Ac  F.Axiom E.3 If A and B are events then A  B is an event i.e. if A, B  F then A  B  F.More generally, if A1, A2, . . . is a list of events then the union of all of these events the set ofoutcomes in at least one of them, A1  A2   , is also an event.One choice of F that satises the above axioms is the set of all subsets of . In fact, in these notes,whenever the sample space  is nite or countably innite which means the elements of  can bearranged in an innite list, indexed by the positive integers, we let F be the set of all subsets of. When  is uncountably innite, it is sometimes mathematically impossible to dene a suitableprobability measure on the set of all subsets of  in a way consistent with the probability axiomsbelow. To avoid such problems, we simply dont allow all subsets of such an  to be events, butthe set of events F can be taken to be a rich collection of subsets of  that includes any subset of we are likely to encounter in applications.If the Axioms E.1-E.3 are satised, the set of events has other intuitively reasonable properties,and we list some of them below. We number these properties starting at 4, because the list is acontinuation of the three axioms, but we use the lower case letter e to label them, reserving theupper case letter E for the axioms.2Property e.4 The empty set, , is an event i.e.   F. That is because  is an event by AxiomE.1, so c is an event by Axiom E.2. But c = , so  is an event.Property e.5 If A and B are events, then AB is an event. To see this, start with De Morganslaw: AB times useful to refer to an event not being true, which is equivalent to thecomplement of the event being true, where the complement of an event is the set of outcomes not1Here BE is the intersection of sets B and E. It is the same as B  E. See Appendix 6.1 for set notation.1.2. AXIOMS OF PROBABILITY7in the event. For example, the complement of B, written Bc, is the event 3, 4, 5, 6. Then, whenthe die is rolled, either B is true or Bc is true, but not both. That is, B  Bc =  and BBc = .Thus, whatever events we might be interested in initially, we might also want to discuss eventsthat are intersections, unions, or complements of the events given initially. The empty set, , orthe whole space of outcomes, , should be events, because they can naturally arise through takingcomplements and intersections or unions. For example, if A is any event, then A  Ac =  andAAc = . The complement of  is , and vice versa.A bit more terminology is introduced before we describe the axioms precisely. One event is saidto exclude another event if an outcome being in the rst event implies the outcome is not in thesecond event. For example, the event O excludes the event E. Of course, E excludes O as well.Two or more events E1, E2, . . . , En, are said to be mutually exclusive if at most one of the eventscan be true. Equivalently, the events E1, E2, . . . , En are mutually exclusive if EiEj =  wheneveri cid:54= j. That is, the events are disjoint sets. If events E1, E2, . . . , En are mutually exclusive, and ifE1    En = , then the events are said to form a partition of . For example, if A is an event,then A and Ac form a partition of .De Morgans law in the theory of sets is that the complement of the union of two sets is theintersection of the complements. Or vice versa: the complement of the intersection is the union ofthe complements:A  Bc = AcBcABc = Ac  Bc.1.1De Morgans law is easy to verify using the Karnaugh map for two events, shown in Figure 1.1.The idea of the map is that the events AB, ABc, AcB, and AcBc form a partition of . The lowerhalf of the gure indicates the events A, B, and A B, respectively. The only part of  that A BFigure 1.1: Karnaugh map showing how two sets, A and B, partition .does not cover is AcBc, proving the rst version of De Morgans law.The Axioms of Probability The proof of De Morgans law outlined above shows that it is auniversal truth about setsit does not need to be assumed. In contrast, the axioms described nextcABBAccABBAccABBAccBcAAcBAABA BA BABcccBABcA Bc8CHAPTER 1. FOUNDATIONSare intuitively reasonable properties that we require to be true of a probability model. The set ofaxioms together dene what we mean by a valid probability model.An experiment is modeled by a probability space, which is a triplet ,F, P . We will read thistriplet as Omega, Script F, P. The rst component, , is a nonempty set. Each element  of  iscalled an outcome and  is called the sample space. The second component, F, is a set of subsetsof  called events. The nal component, P , of the triplet ,F, P , is a probability measure on F,which assigns a probability, P A, to each event A. The axioms of probability are of two types:event axioms, which are about the set of events F, and probability axioms, which are about theprobability measure P.Event axioms The set of events, F, is required to satisfy the following axioms:Axiom E.1  is an event i.e.   F.Axiom E.2 If A is an event then Ac is an event i.e. if A  F then Ac  F.Axiom E.3 If A and B are events then A  B is an event i.e. if A, B  F then A  B  F.More generally, if A1, A2, . . . is a list of events then the union of all of these events the set ofoutcomes in at least one of them, A1  A2   , is also an event.One choice of F that satises the above axioms is the set of all subsets of . In fact, in these notes,whenever the sample space  is nite or countably innite which means the elements of  can bearranged in an innite list, indexed by the positive integers, we let F be the set of all subsets of. When  is uncountably innite, it is sometimes mathematically impossible to dene a suitableprobability measure on the set of all subsets of  in a way consistent with the probability axiomsbelow. To avoid such problems, we simply dont allow all subsets of such an  to be events, butthe set of events F can be taken to be a rich collection of subsets of  that includes any subset of we are likely to encounter in applications.If the Axioms E.1-E.3 are satised, the set of events has other intuitively reasonable properties,and we list some of them below. We number these properties starting at 4, because the list is acontinuation of the three axioms, but we use the lower case letter e to label them, reserving theupper case letter E for the axioms.2Property e.4 The empty set, , is an event i.e.   F. That is because  is an event by AxiomE.1, so c is an event by Axiom E.2. But c = , so  is an event.Property e.5 If A and B are events, then AB is an event. To see this, start with De Morganslaw: AB 