 Distribution, ML Parameter EstimationSections 3.6  3.73.15. Standardizing a random variable with a triangular pdf Suppose X has the pdf shown:a Find the constant c.bb Let cid:101X denote the standardized version of X. Thus, cid:101X = Xab so that cid:101X has mean zero and variance one. Carefully sketch the pdf of cid:101X. Be sure tofor some constants a andindicate both the horizontal and vertical scales of your sketch by labeling at least onenonzero point on each of the axes. Hint: VarX = 16 .3.16. Gaussian distributionThe random variable X has the N 4, 9 distribution. Express the following probabilities interms of the Q function:a PX = 0b P|X + 4|  2c P0 < X < 2d PX 2 < 93.17. A mixture of Gaussian distributionsSuppose X, Y and Z are three mutually independent random variables such that X  N 2, 4,Y  N 7, 9, and B  Bernoulli2/3. Let Z = XB + Y 1  B. The distribution of Z is amixture of the distributions of X and Y.a Find the pdf of Z. Hint: First nd the CDF. Use the law of total probability, takinginto account the two possible cases B = 1 and B = 0.b Find PZ  4|B = 1.X210ucf   u3.12. PROBLEMS153c Find PZ = 4|B = 1.d Find PZ  4|B = 0.e Find PZ  4.3.18. Blind guessing answers on an examA particular exam has ten True/False questions. A student gets 3 points for each correctanswer, -3 points for each wrong answer, and zero points for any unanswered question. Assumethe student has no idea what the correct answers are, but attempts to answer all ten questionsby randomly guessing True or False on each one. Let S be the students total score from thesequestions.a Find the upper bound on PS  12 yielded by the Markov inequality. Since the Markovinequality is for nonnegative random variables, apply it to the random variable X, whereX is the number of correct answers.b Find the upper bound on PS  12 yielded by the Chebychev inequality and theobservation that, by symmetry, PS  12 = PS  12. Use this observation tomake the bound tighter.c Find the approximate value of PS  12 using the Gaussian approximation suggestedby the central limit theorem. To be denite, use the continuity correction.3.19. Heads minus tailsSuppose a fair coin is ipped 100 times, and A is the event:A =  |number of heads - number of tails|  10 .a Let S denote the number of heads. Express A in terms of S. Specically, identify whichvalues of S make A true.b Using the Gaussian approximation with the continuity correction, express the approxi-mate value of P A in terms of the Q function.3.20. Betting with doubling or halvingSuppose Bob plays a series of card games at a casino. He declares prior to each game howmuch money he bets on the game.If he wins the game, he wins as much money as hebet. Otherwise, he loses as much money as he bet. Assume that he wins each game withprobability 0.5, and the outcomes of the games are mutually independent. Suppose he initiallyhas $1,048,576 = 220 and, for each game, he bets one half of the money he has prior to thegame. Assume that his bet can be any positive real, i.e., $2/3.a Let X be the number of wins in the rst 196 games, and let S be the money remainingafter 196 games. Express S in terms of X. Simplify your answer as much as possible.b Using the Gaussian approximation, express the probability Bob has $1 or less after 196games in terms of the Q-function or -function. Use of the continuity correction isoptional. Hint: Approximate log23 by 1.6.154CHAPTER 3. CONTINUOUS-TYPE RANDOM VARIABLES3.21. Approximations to a Binomial DistributionA communication receiver recovers a block of n = 105 bits. It is known that each bit in theblock can be in error with probability 104, independently of whether other bits are in error.a Write down an exact expression for the probability of observing k = 15 errors in theblock. A numerical value isnt required to be calculated.b Determine an approximate value of PX = 15 via the Gaussian approximation withcontinuity correction.c Solve part b using the Poisson approximation of a binomial distribution.3.22. ML parameter estimation for Rayleigh and uniform distributionscid:40 cid:0 ucid:1 e u22 u  0u < 0the value of  is unknown and it is observed that X = 10. Find the maximum likelihooda Suppose X has the pdf: fu =estimate, cid:98M L, of .b Suppose Y is uniformly distributed over the interval cid:2 10with parameter  > 0. Supposecid:3 , where a is an unknowna , 2apositive parameter. Find the maximum likelihood estimate aM L for the observationY = 3.3.23. ML parameter estimation of the rate of a Poisson processCalls arrive in a call center according to a Poisson process with arrival rate  calls/minute.Derive the maximum likelihood estimatecid:98M L if k calls are received in a T minute interval.3.24. ML parameter estimation for independent exponentially distributed rvsThe failure rate  for a new model of high power laser is to be estimated. Suppose n lasersare tested, and let Ui be the observed lifetime of the ith laser operating at high power.Suppose that U1, . . . , Un are independent and e