ach is exponentially distributed with the sameparameter , to be estimated.a Suppose it is observed that U1, . . . , Un = u1, . . . , un for some particular vector of pos-itive numbers, u1, . . . , un. Write the likelihood of this observation as simply as possiblein terms of  and u1, . . . , un. Hint: By the assumed independence, the likelihood isthe product of the pdfs of the individual lasers: fu1 fun, where f is the pdffor the exponential distribution with parameter .b Find cid:98M L if it is observed that U1, . . . , Un = u1, . . . , un. Simplify your answer asmuch as possible.3.25. A hypothesis testing problem for the mean of a binomial distributionConsider a binary hypothesis testing problem with observation X. Under H0, X has thebinomial distribution with parameters n = 72 and p = 13 . Under H1, X has the binomialdistribution with parameters n = 72 and p = 23 .a Describe the maximum likelihood decision rule for an observation k, where k is anarbitrary integer with 0  k  72. Express the rule in terms of k as simply as possible.To be denite, in case of a tie in likelihoods, declare H1 to be the hypothesis.b Suppose a particular decision rule declares that H1 is the true hypothesis if and only ifX  34. Find the approximate value of pf alsealarm for this rule by using the Gaussianapproximation to the binomial distribution. To be denite, dont use the continuitycorrection.c Describe the MAP decision rule for an observation k, where k is an arbitrary integerwith 0  k  72, for the prior distribution 0 = 0.9 and 1 = 0.1. Express the rule interms of k as simply as possible.d Assuming the same prior distribution as in part c, nd P H0|X = 38.Functions of a random variable, failure rate functions, and binaryhypothesis testing for continuous-type observations Sections 3.8-3.103.26. Some simple questions about a uniformly distributed random variableSuppose X is uniformly distributed on the interval 0,3.a Find EX 2.b Find Pcid:98X 2cid:99 = 3, where cid:98vcid:99 is the greatest integer less than or equal to v.c Find the cumulative distribution function CDF of Y = ln X. Be sure to specify it overthe entire real line.3.27. Some simple questions about an exponentially distributed random variableSuppose X has the exponential distribution with parameter  > 0. Express the answers belowin terms of .a Find EX 2.b Find Pcid:98X 2cid:99 = 3, where cid:98vcid:99 is the greatest integer less than or equal to v.c Find the cumulative distribution function CDF of Y = eX . Be sure to specify it overthe entire real line.3.28. A binary quantizer with Laplacian inputSuppose X has pdf fX u = e|u|for some positive constant . So Y is the output of a binary quantizer with input X.and Y = gX where gu = signu =2cid:26 if u  0 if u < 0a Describe the pdf or pmf of Y.b Find the mean square quantization error, EX  Y 2. Your answer should depend onHint: cid:82 .0 ukeudu = k! for nonnegative integers k.156CHAPTER 3. CONTINUOUS-TYPE RANDOM VARIABLESc Find  to minimize the mean square quantization error.3.29. The exponential of an exponentially distributed random variableSuppose Y = eX , where X is an exponentially distributed random variable with parameter.a What is EY ? Give a simple answer depending on  that is valid for  > 1.b What is the support of the pdf fY v the set of v for which fY v cid:54= 0?c For the set of v that you specied in part b, nd the CDF FY v.3.30. Log uniform and log normal random variablesa Let Z = eU , where U is uniformly distributed over an interval a, b. Find the pdf, fZ.Be sure to specify it over the entire real line. The random variable Z is said to have alog uniform distribution because lnZ has a uniform distribution.b Find EZ. Hint: Use LOTUS.c Let Y = eX , where X has a normal distribution. For simplicity, suppose X has meanzero and variance one. Find the pdf, fY . The random variable Y is said to have a lognormal distribution because lnY  has a normal distribution. This distribution arises asthe amplitude of a signal after propagation through a heterogeneous media such as intomography or atmospheric propagation, where attenuation factors in dierent parts ofthe media are mutually independent.d Find EY . Hint: Use LOTUS. Rewrite the integrand as a constant times a Gaussianpdf by completing the square in the exponent, and integrate out the pdf to get a simpleanswer.3.31. A simple hypothesis testing problem with continuous-type observationsConsider the hypothesis testing problem in which the pdfs of the observation X under hy-potheses H0 and H1 are given, respectively, by:cid:40 1cid:40|u|200andf0u =f1u =if  1  u  1otherwiseif  1  u  1otherwiseAssume the priors on the hypotheses satisfy 1 = 20.a Find the MAP rule.b Find pfalse alarm, pmiss and the average probability of error, pe, for the MAP rule.3.12. PROBLEMS1573.32. Function of a random variableLet X have pdf fX u = 12u2 for |u|  1 and fX u = 0 for |u| < 1. Let Y =cid:112|X|.a Using LOTUS, nd EY .b Find the pdf of Y.c This part does not involve Y . Find the nonach is exponentially distributed with the sameparameter , to be estimated.a Suppose it is observed that U1, . . . , Un = u1, . . . , un for some particular vector of pos-itive numbers, u1, . . . , un. Write the likelihood of this observation as simply as possiblein terms of  and u1, . . . , un. Hint: By the assumed independence, the likelihood isthe product of the pdfs of the individual lasers: fu1 fun, where f is the pdffor the exponential distribution with parameter .b Find cid:98M L if it is observed that U1, . . . , Un = u1, . . . , un. Simplify your answer asmuch as possible.3.25. A hypothesis testing problem for the mean of a binomial distributionConsider a binary hypothesis testing problem with observation X. Under H0, X has thebinomial distribution with parameters n = 72 and p = 13 . Under H1, X has the binomialdistribution with parameters n = 72 and p = 23 .a Describe the maximum likelihood decision rule for an observation k, where k is anarbitrary integer with 0  k  72. Express the rule in terms of k as simply as possible.To be denite, in case of a tie in likelihoods, declare H1 to be the hypothesis.b Suppose a particular decision rule declares that H1 is the true hypothesis if and only ifX  34. Find the approximate value of pf alsealarm for this rule by using the Gaussianapproximation to the binomial distribution. To be denite, dont use the continuitycorrection.c Describe the MAP decision rule for an observation k, where k is an arbitrary integerwith 0  k  72, for the prior distribution 0 = 0.9 and 1 = 0.1. Express the rule interms of k as simply as possible.d Assuming the same prior distribution as in part c, nd P H0|X = 38.Functions of a random variable, failure rate functions, and binaryhypothesis testing for continuous-type observations Sections 3.8-3.103.26. Some simple questions about a uniformly distributed random variableSuppose X is uniformly distributed on the interval 0,3.a Find EX 2.b Find Pcid:98X 2cid:99 = 3, where cid:98vcid:99 is the greatest integer less than or equal to v.c Find the cumulative distribution function CDF of Y = ln X. Be sure to specify it overthe entire real line.3.27. Some simple questions about an exponentially distributed random variableSuppose X has the exponential distribution with parameter  > 0. Express the answers belowin terms of .a Find EX 2.b Find Pcid:98X 2cid:99 = 3, where cid:98vcid:99 is the greatest integer less than or equal to v.c Find the cumulative distribution function CDF of Y = eX . Be sure to specify it overthe entire real line.3.28. A binary quantizer with Laplacian inputSuppose X has pdf fX u = e|u|for some positive constant . So Y is the output of a binary quantizer with input X.and Y = gX where gu = signu =2cid:26 if u  0 if u < 0a Describe the pdf or pmf of Y.b Find the mean square quantization error, EX  Y 2. Your answer should depend onHint: cid:82 .0 ukeudu = k! for nonnegative integers k.156CHAPTER 3. CONTINUOUS-TYPE RANDOM VARIABLESc Find  to minimize the mean square quantization error.3.29. The exponential of an exponentially distributed random variableSuppose Y = eX , where X is an exponentially distributed random variable with parameter.a What is EY ? Give a simple answer depending on  that is valid for  > 1.b What is the support of the pdf fY v the set of v for which fY v cid:54= 0?c For the set of v that you specied in part b, nd the CDF FY v.3.30. Log uniform and log normal random variablesa Let Z = eU , where U is uniformly distributed over an interval a, b. Find the pdf, fZ.Be sure to specify it over the entire real line. The random variable Z is said to have alog uniform distribution because lnZ has a uniform distribution.b Find EZ. Hint: Use LOTUS.c Let Y = eX , where X has a normal distribution. For simplicity, suppose X has meanzero and variance one. Find the pdf, fY . The random variable Y is said to have a lognormal distribution because lnY  has a normal distribution. This distribution arises asthe amplitude of a signal after propagation through a heterogeneous media such as intomography or atmospheric propagation, where attenuation factors in dierent parts ofthe media are mutually independent.d Find EY . Hint: Use LOTUS. Rewrite the integrand as a constant times a Gaussianpdf by completing the square in the exponent, and integrate out the pdf to get a simpleanswer.3.31. A simple hypothesis testing problem with continuous-type observationsConsider the hypothesis testing problem in which the pdfs of the observation X under hy-potheses H0 and H1 are given, respectively, by:cid:40 1cid:40|u|200andf0u =f1u =if  1  u  1otherwiseif  1  u  1otherwiseAssume the priors on the hypotheses satisfy 1 = 20.a Find the MAP rule.b Find pfalse alarm, pmiss and the average probability of error, pe, for the MAP rule.3.12. PROBLEMS1573.32. Function of a random variableLet X have pdf fX u = 12u2 for |u|  1 and fX u = 0 for |u| < 1. Let Y =cid:112|X|.a Using LOTUS, nd EY .b Find the pdf of Y.c This part does not involve Y . Find the non