 is a Gaussian random variable with mean zero and variance 2=0.5: f1u = eu2. Under H0, X has the Cauchy density, f0u =11+u2 .1a Find the ML decision rule. Express it as simply as possible.b Find pfalse alarm and pmiss. Hint: the CDFs of X under the hypotheses are F0c = 0.5 +c Consider the decision rule that decides H1 is true if |X|  1.4 and decides H0 otherwise.This rule is the MAP rule for some prior distribution 1, 0. Find the ratio  = 0/1for that distribution.and F1c = c2, respectively.arctanc160CHAPTER 3. CONTINUOUS-TYPE RANDOM VARIABLESChapter 4Jointly Distributed Random VariablesThis chapter focuses on dealing with multiple random variables that may not be independent.Earlier in these notes, weve sometimes worked with multiple random variables. For example,a Bernoulli process, as discussed in Section 2.6, is composed of independent Bernoulli randomvariables, and other random variables are also associated with the processes, such as the numberof trials required for each one, and the cumulative number of ones up to some time n. Similarly,Poisson processes, discussed in Section 2.7, involve multiple random variables dened on the samespace. But typically we considered independent random variables.In many applications, thereare multiple dependent i.e. not independent random variables. The strength of the dependenceis sometimes of primary importance. For example, researchers in medicine are often interestedin the correlation between some behavior and some aspect of health, such as between smokingand heart attacks. Sometimes one random variable is observed and we wish to estimate another.For example, we may be interested in predicting the performance of a nancial market based onobservation of an employment statistic. Some questions that arise in this context are the following:What does it mean for a predictor or estimator to be the best? What do we need to know tocompute an estimator? What computations are required and how complex are they? What ifwe restrict attention to linear estimators? Is there a generalization of the Gaussian distribution,central limit theorem, and Gaussian approximation for multiple dependent random variables?4.1 Joint cumulative distribution functionsRecall that any random variable has a CDF, but pmfs for discrete-type random variables andpdfs for continuous-type random variables are usually simpler. This situation is illustrated inFigure 3.5. In this chapter well see that the same scheme holds for joint distributions of multiplerandom variables. We begin in this section with a brief look at joint CDFs.Let X and Y be random variables on a single probability space ,F, P . The joint cumulativedistribution function CDF is the function of two variables dened byFX,Y uo, vo = PX  uo, Y  vo.161162CHAPTER 4. JOINTLY DISTRIBUTED RANDOM VARIABLESfor any uo, vo  R2. Here, R2 denotes the set of all pairs of real numbers, or, equivalently, thetwo-dimensional Euclidean plane. That is, FX,Y uo, vo is the probability that the random pointX, Y  falls into the shaded region in the u  v plane, shown in Figure 4.1.Figure 4.1: Region dening FX,Y uo, vo.The joint CDF determines the probabilities of all events concerning X and Y . For example, ifR is the rectangular region a, b  c, d in the plane, thenPX, Y   R = FX,Y b, d  FX,Y b, c  FX,Y a, d + FX,Y a, c,4.1as illustrated in Figure 4.2. The joint CDF of X and Y also determines the probabilities of anyFigure 4.2: PX, Y   shaded region is equal to FX,Y evaluated at the corners with signs shown.event concerning X alone, or Y alone. To show this, we show that the CDF of X alone is determinedby the joint CDF of X and Y.Proposition 4.1.1 Suppose X and Y have joint CDF FX,Y . For each u xed the limit, limv FX,Y u, vexists; call it FX,Y u,. Furthermore, FX u = FX,Y u,. Similarly, FY v = FX,Y , v.uvu  ,v  ooabcduv!++!4.2. JOINT PROBABILITY MASS FUNCTIONS163The events G0, G1, . . . are mutually exclusive, andcid:83Proof. Fix u  R. Let G0 = X  u, Y  0 and for n  1 let Gn = X  u, n  1 < Y  n.n=0 Gn = X  u. Therefore, by Axiom P.2,about the additivity of probability measures,FX u = lim= lim= limn P G0 + P G1 +  + P Gnn P G0  G1    Gnn PX  u, Y  n = limn FX,Y u, nAlso, FX,Y u, v is nondecreasing in v. Thus, limv FX,Y u, v exits and is equal to FX u, asclaimed.Properties of CDFs The joint CDF, FX,Y , for a pair of random variables X and Y , has thefollowing properties. For brevity, we drop the subscripts on FX,Y and write it simply as F : 0  F u, v  1 for all u, v  R2 F u, v is nondecreasing in u and is nondecreasing in v F u, v is right-continuous in u and right-continuous in v If a < b and c < d, then F b, d  F b, c  F a, d + F a, c  0 limu F u, v = 0 for each v, and limv F u, v = 0 for each u limu limv F u, v = 1It can be shown that any function F satisfying the above properties is the joint CDF for some pairof random variables X, Y .4.2 Joint probability mass functionsIf X and Y are each discrete-type random variables on the same probability space, they have a