p222f 2/2 = exp21 + 222f 2/2.2 The other way is to use the fact that the the sum of two independent binomial random variableswith the same p parameter is again a binomial random variable, and then appeal to the DeMoivre-Laplace limit theorem, stating Gaussian distributions are limits of binomial distributions. A similarapproach was used in Examples 4.5.1 and 4.5.2.4.6 Additional examples using joint distributionsThree examples are presented in this section. The rst two examples continue the theme fromthe previous section; they illustrate, for functions of two random variables, use of the three stepprocedure of Section 3.8 for nding the pdf of a function gX, Y  of two random variables. A keystep in the procedure is to calculate the probabilities of events involving two random variables interms of their joint pdf. The third example also involves calculating the probability of an eventdetermined by two random variables.Example 4.6.1 Suppose W = maxX, Y , where X and Y are independent, continuous-typerandom variables. Express fW in terms of fX and fY . Note: This example complements theanalysis of the minimum of two random variables, discussed in Section 3.9 in connection withfailure rate functions.Solution: We compute FW rst. A nice observation is that, for any constant t, maxX, Y   t ifand only if X  t and Y  t. Equivalently, the following equality holds for events: maxX, Y  t = X  t  Y  t. By the independence of X and Y,FW t = PmaxX, Y   t = PX  tPY  t = FX tFY t.Dierentiating with respect to t yieldsfW t = fX tFY t + fY tFX t.4.224.6. ADDITIONAL EXAMPLES USING JOINT DISTRIBUTIONS185There is a nice interpretation of 4.22, explained by the following alternative derivation of it. Ifh is a small positive number, the probability that W is in the interval t, t + h is fW th + oh,where oh/h  0 as h  0.2 There are three mutually exclusive ways that W can be in t, t + h:Y  t and X  t, t + h : has probability FY tfX th + ohX  t and Y  t, t + h : has probability FX tfY th + ohX  t, t + h and Y  t, t + h : has probability fX thfY th + ohSo fW th + oh = FY tfX th + FX tfY th + fX tfY th2 + oh. Dividing this by h andletting h  0 yields 4.22.Example 4.6.2 Suppose X and Y are jointly continuous-type random variables. Let R =so R is the distance of the random point X, Y  from the origin. Express fR in terms of fX,Y .X 2 + Y 2,Solution: Clearly R is a nonnegative random variable. We proceed to nd its CDF. Let c > 0,and let Dc denote the disk of radius c centered at the origin. Using polar coordinates,Dierentiating FR to obtain fR yieldsfX,Y r cos, r sinrdrd.cid:19fX,Y r cos, r sinrdrdFRc = PR  c = PX, Y   DcfX,Y u, vdudv==cid:90 cid:90cid:90 2cid:90 2cid:90 2ddc000Dccid:90 ccid:18cid:90 c00fRc ==fX,Y c cos, c sin c d.4.23The integral in 4.23 is just the path integral of fX,Y over the circle of radius c. This makes sense,because the only way R can be close to c is if X, Y  is close to the circle, and so 4.23 is acontinuous-type example of the law of total probability.A special case is when fX,Y is circularly symmetric, which by denition means that fX,Y u, vu2 + v2. Equivalently, circularly symmetric meansdepends on u, v only through the value r =that fX,Y u, v = fX,Y r, 0. So, if fX,Y is circularly symmetric, 4.23 simplies to:fRc = 2cfX,Y c, 0if fX,Y is circularly symmetric.2See Appendix 6.1 for additional explanation of little oh notation, commonly used in calculus for approximationerrors.186CHAPTER 4. JOINTLY DISTRIBUTED RANDOM VARIABLESExample 4.6.3 Buons needle problem Suppose a needle of unit length is thrown at randomonto a large grid of lines with unit spacing. Find the probability the needle, after it comes to rest,intersects a grid line.Solution: An important aspect of solving this problem is how to model it, and that depends onhow we think about it. Here is one possible way to think about itbut there are others. Imaginethat the needle lands in a plane with horizontal and vertical directions, and that the grid linesare horizontal. When the needle lands, let , with 0    , denote the angle between theline going through the needle and a grid line, measured counter-clockwise from the grid line, asshown in Figure 4.17. Assume that  is uniformly distributed over the interval 0, . The verticalFigure 4.17: Solving the Buon needle problem.displacement of the needle is sin. Let U denote the vertical distance from the lower endpoint ofthe needle to the rst grid line above that endpoint. It is reasonable to assume that U is uniformlydistributed from 0 to 1, and that U is independent of . The needle intersects the grid if and onlyif U  sin. The joint density of , U , is equal to 1Integrating that density over the region , u : u  sin shown in Figure 4.18 yields over the rectangular region 0,   0, 1.Figure 4.18: Region of integration for Buon needle problem.sin   U!!!100u4.6. ADDITIONAL EXAMPLES USING JOINT DISTRIBUTIONS187Pneedle intersects grid = PU  sincid:90 cid:90 00cid:90 sin 0sin1d==dud=  coscid:12cid:12cid:12cid:120 0.636p222f 2/2 = exp21 + 222f 2/2.2 The other way is to use the fact that the the sum of two independent binomial random variableswith the same p parameter is again a binomial random variable, and then appeal to the DeMoivre-Laplace limit theorem, stating Gaussian distributions are limits of binomial distributions. A similarapproach was used in Examples 4.5.1 and 4.5.2.4.6 Additional examples using joint distributionsThree examples are presented in this section. The rst two examples continue the theme fromthe previous section; they illustrate, for functions of two random variables, use of the three stepprocedure of Section 3.8 for nding the pdf of a function gX, Y  of two random variables. A keystep in the procedure is to calculate the probabilities of events involving two random variables interms of their joint pdf. The third example also involves calculating the probability of an eventdetermined by two random variables.Example 4.6.1 Suppose W = maxX, Y , where X and Y are independent, continuous-typerandom variables. Express fW in terms of fX and fY . Note: This example complements theanalysis of the minimum of two random variables, discussed in Section 3.9 in connection withfailure rate functions.Solution: We compute FW rst. A nice observation is that, for any constant t, maxX, Y   t ifand only if X  t and Y  t. Equivalently, the following equality holds for events: maxX, Y  t = X  t  Y  t. By the independence of X and Y,FW t = PmaxX, Y   t = PX  tPY  t = FX tFY t.Dierentiating with respect to t yieldsfW t = fX tFY t + fY tFX t.4.224.6. ADDITIONAL EXAMPLES USING JOINT DISTRIBUTIONS185There is a nice interpretation of 4.22, explained by the following alternative derivation of it. Ifh is a small positive number, the probability that W is in the interval t, t + h is fW th + oh,where oh/h  0 as h  0.2 There are three mutually exclusive ways that W can be in t, t + h:Y  t and X  t, t + h : has probability FY tfX th + ohX  t and Y  t, t + h : has probability FX tfY th + ohX  t, t + h and Y  t, t + h : has probability fX thfY th + ohSo fW th + oh = FY tfX th + FX tfY th + fX tfY th2 + oh. Dividing this by h andletting h  0 yields 4.22.Example 4.6.2 Suppose X and Y are jointly continuous-type random variables. Let R =so R is the distance of the random point X, Y  from the origin. Express fR in terms of fX,Y .X 2 + Y 2,Solution: Clearly R is a nonnegative random variable. We proceed to nd its CDF. Let c > 0,and let Dc denote the disk of radius c centered at the origin. Using polar coordinates,Dierentiating FR to obtain fR yieldsfX,Y r cos, r sinrdrd.cid:19fX,Y r cos, r sinrdrdFRc = PR  c = PX, Y   DcfX,Y u, vdudv==cid:90 cid:90cid:90 2cid:90 2cid:90 2ddc000Dccid:90 ccid:18cid:90 c00fRc ==fX,Y c cos, c sin c d.4.23The integral in 4.23 is just the path integral of fX,Y over the circle of radius c. This makes sense,because the only way R can be close to c is if X, Y  is close to the circle, and so 4.23 is acontinuous-type example of the law of total probability.A special case is when fX,Y is circularly symmetric, which by denition means that fX,Y u, vu2 + v2. Equivalently, circularly symmetric meansdepends on u, v only through the value r =that fX,Y u, v = fX,Y r, 0. So, if fX,Y is circularly symmetric, 4.23 simplies to:fRc = 2cfX,Y c, 0if fX,Y is circularly symmetric.2See Appendix 6.1 for additional explanation of little oh notation, commonly used in calculus for approximationerrors.186CHAPTER 4. JOINTLY DISTRIBUTED RANDOM VARIABLESExample 4.6.3 Buons needle problem Suppose a needle of unit length is thrown at randomonto a large grid of lines with unit spacing. Find the probability the needle, after it comes to rest,intersects a grid line.Solution: An important aspect of solving this problem is how to model it, and that depends onhow we think about it. Here is one possible way to think about itbut there are others. Imaginethat the needle lands in a plane with horizontal and vertical directions, and that the grid linesare horizontal. When the needle lands, let , with 0    , denote the angle between theline going through the needle and a grid line, measured counter-clockwise from the grid line, asshown in Figure 4.17. Assume that  is uniformly distributed over the interval 0, . The verticalFigure 4.17: Solving the Buon needle problem.displacement of the needle is sin. Let U denote the vertical distance from the lower endpoint ofthe needle to the rst grid line above that endpoint. It is reasonable to assume that U is uniformlydistributed from 0 to 1, and that U is independent of . The needle intersects the grid if and onlyif U  sin. The joint density of , U , is equal to 1Integrating that density over the region , u : u  sin shown in Figure 4.18 yields over the rectangular region 0,   0, 1.Figure 4.18: Region of integration for Buon needle problem.sin   U!!!100u4.6. ADDITIONAL EXAMPLES USING JOINT DISTRIBUTIONS187Pneedle intersects grid = PU  sincid:90 cid:90 00cid:90 sin 0sin1d==dud=  coscid:12cid:12cid:12cid:120 0.636