6.=2The answer can also be written as Esin. A way to interpret this is that, given , the probabilitythe needle intersects a line is sin, and averaging over all  in a continuous-type version of thelaw of total probability gives the overall answer.Letting  = Pneedle intersects grid, the above shows that  = 2 . Here is another derivationyou can show your friends or students. Begin by asking What is the mean number of times theneedle crosses the grid? Of course, the answer is  because the number of crossings is either onewith probability  or zero with probability 1  . Then bend the needle to about a right anglein the middle, throw it on the grid and ask again, What is the mean number of times the needlecrosses the grid? Convince yourself and the audience that the number is still bending the needledoes not change the mean; each small segment of the needle has the same probability of intersectingthe grid no matter the shape of the needle, and the sum of expectations is the expectation of thesum. Next ask, what if a longer bent needle, of length , is randomly dropped onto the grid. Thenwhat is the mean number of intersections of the needle with the grid? Convince yourself and theaudience that the expected number is proportional to the length of the needle, so the expectednumber is . Now, bend the length  needle into a ring of diameter one; the circumference is .By the discussion so far, the mean number of intersections of the ring with the grid when the ringis randomly tossed onto the grid is . But no matter where the ring lands, it intersects the gridexactly twice. Thus, the mean number of intersections is two, which is equal to . So,  = 2 .Example 4.6.4 Consider the following variation of the Buons needle problem Example 4.6.3.Suppose a needle of unit length is thrown at random onto a plane with both a vertical grid anda horizontal grid, each with unit spacing. Find the probability the needle, after it comes to rest,does NOT intersect any grid line.Solution: Let Mh be the event that the needle misses the horizontal grid i.e. does not intersecta horizontal grid line and let Mv denote the event that the needle misses the vertical grid. Weseek to nd P MhMv. By the solution to Buons needle problem, P Mh = P Mv = 1  2 . IfMh and Mv were independent, we would have that P MhMv = 1  2 2  0.3632  0.132. Butthese events are not independent.Let  be dened relative to the horizontal grid as in the solution of Buons needle problem.Then the vertical displacement of the needle is sin and the horizontal displacement is | cos|.Assume that the position of the needle relative to the horizontal grid is independent of its positionrelative to the vertical grid. Let U be as in the solution to Buons needle problem, and let Vsimilarly denote the distance from the leftmost endpoint of the needle to the rst vertical gridline to the right of that point, as shown in Figure 4.19. Then U and V are independent, and the188CHAPTER 4. JOINTLY DISTRIBUTED RANDOM VARIABLESFigure 4.19: Variation of the Buon needle problem, with horizontal and vertical grids.needle misses both grids if and only if U  sin and V  | cos|. Therefore, P MhMv| = = PU  sin, V  | cos| = PU  sinPV  | cos| = 1  sin1  | cos|.Averaging over  using its pdf yields using the trigometric identity 2 sin cos = sin20cid:90 cid:90 /2cid:90 /2cid:90 /2cid:18 0002P MhMh =====122221  sin1  | cos|d1  sin1  cosd1  sin  cos  sin cosdcid:191  sin  cos  sin2d2 1  1 +12= 1  3 0.045.The true probability of missing both grids is almost three times smaller than what it would be ifMh and Mv were independent. Intuitively, the events are negatively correlated. That is becauseif Mh is true, it is likely that the position of the needle is more horizontal than vertical, and thatmakes it less likely that Mv is true. A way to express the negative correlation is to note thatP Mv|Mh = P MhMh0.363  0.124, which is nearly three times smaller than the unconditionalP Mh  0.045probability, P Mv  0.363.4.7 Joint pdfs of functions of random variablesThe previous two sections present examples with one random variable that is a function of twoother random variables. For example, X + Y is a function of X, Y . In this section we considerthe case that there are two random variables, W and Z, that are both functions of X, Y , and wesee how to determine the joint pdf of W and Z from the joint pdf of X and Y. For example, X, Y could represent a random point in the plane in the usual rectangular coordinates, and we may beinterested in determining the joint distribution of the polar coordinates of the same point.!U!Vsin   cos   !4.7. JOINT PDFS OF FUNCTIONS OF RANDOM VARIABLES1894.7.1 Transformation of pdfs under a linear mappingvYcid:19and supposecid:18Winstead of fX,Y u, v.cid:1 instead of X, Y , and we write fX,Y cid:0ucid:1cid:1 has a joint pdf fX,Y ,cid:1. For ease of analysis,cid:1 is thecid:18a bcid:19To get started, rst consider the case that W and Z are both linear functions of X and Y. It is muchsimpler to work wi6.=2The answer can also be written as Esin. A way to interpret this is that, given , the probabilitythe needle intersects a line is sin, and averaging over all  in a continuous-type version of thelaw of total probability gives the overall answer.Letting  = Pneedle intersects grid, the above shows that  = 2 . Here is another derivationyou can show your friends or students. Begin by asking What is the mean number of times theneedle crosses the grid? Of course, the answer is  because the number of crossings is either onewith probability  or zero with probability 1  . Then bend the needle to about a right anglein the middle, throw it on the grid and ask again, What is the mean number of times the needlecrosses the grid? Convince yourself and the audience that the number is still bending the needledoes not change the mean; each small segment of the needle has the same probability of intersectingthe grid no matter the shape of the needle, and the sum of expectations is the expectation of thesum. Next ask, what if a longer bent needle, of length , is randomly dropped onto the grid. Thenwhat is the mean number of intersections of the needle with the grid? Convince yourself and theaudience that the expected number is proportional to the length of the needle, so the expectednumber is . Now, bend the length  needle into a ring of diameter one; the circumference is .By the discussion so far, the mean number of intersections of the ring with the grid when the ringis randomly tossed onto the grid is . But no matter where the ring lands, it intersects the gridexactly twice. Thus, the mean number of intersections is two, which is equal to . So,  = 2 .Example 4.6.4 Consider the following variation of the Buons needle problem Example 4.6.3.Suppose a needle of unit length is thrown at random onto a plane with both a vertical grid anda horizontal grid, each with unit spacing. Find the probability the needle, after it comes to rest,does NOT intersect any grid line.Solution: Let Mh be the event that the needle misses the horizontal grid i.e. does not intersecta horizontal grid line and let Mv denote the event that the needle misses the vertical grid. Weseek to nd P MhMv. By the solution to Buons needle problem, P Mh = P Mv = 1  2 . IfMh and Mv were independent, we would have that P MhMv = 1  2 2  0.3632  0.132. Butthese events are not independent.Let  be dened relative to the horizontal grid as in the solution of Buons needle problem.Then the vertical displacement of the needle is sin and the horizontal displacement is | cos|.Assume that the position of the needle relative to the horizontal grid is independent of its positionrelative to the vertical grid. Let U be as in the solution to Buons needle problem, and let Vsimilarly denote the distance from the leftmost endpoint of the needle to the rst vertical gridline to the right of that point, as shown in Figure 4.19. Then U and V are independent, and the188CHAPTER 4. JOINTLY DISTRIBUTED RANDOM VARIABLESFigure 4.19: Variation of the Buon needle problem, with horizontal and vertical grids.needle misses both grids if and only if U  sin and V  | cos|. Therefore, P MhMv| = = PU  sin, V  | cos| = PU  sinPV  | cos| = 1  sin1  | cos|.Averaging over  using its pdf yields using the trigometric identity 2 sin cos = sin20cid:90 cid:90 /2cid:90 /2cid:90 /2cid:18 0002P MhMh =====122221  sin1  | cos|d1  sin1  cosd1  sin  cos  sin cosdcid:191  sin  cos  sin2d2 1  1 +12= 1  3 0.045.The true probability of missing both grids is almost three times smaller than what it would be ifMh and Mv were independent. Intuitively, the events are negatively correlated. That is becauseif Mh is true, it is likely that the position of the needle is more horizontal than vertical, and thatmakes it less likely that Mv is true. A way to express the negative correlation is to note thatP Mv|Mh = P MhMh0.363  0.124, which is nearly three times smaller than the unconditionalP Mh  0.045probability, P Mv  0.363.4.7 Joint pdfs of functions of random variablesThe previous two sections present examples with one random variable that is a function of twoother random variables. For example, X + Y is a function of X, Y . In this section we considerthe case that there are two random variables, W and Z, that are both functions of X, Y , and wesee how to determine the joint pdf of W and Z from the joint pdf of X and Y. For example, X, Y could represent a random point in the plane in the usual rectangular coordinates, and we may beinterested in determining the joint distribution of the polar coordinates of the same point.!U!Vsin   cos   !4.7. JOINT PDFS OF FUNCTIONS OF RANDOM VARIABLES1894.7.1 Transformation of pdfs under a linear mappingvYcid:19and supposecid:18Winstead of fX,Y u, v.cid:1 instead of X, Y , and we write fX,Y cid:0ucid:1cid:1 has a joint pdf fX,Y ,cid:1. For ease of analysis,cid:1 is thecid:18a bcid:19To get started, rst consider the case that W and Z are both linear functions of X and Y. It is muchsimpler to work wi