 there are m ways to select onevariable and n ways to select another variable, and if these two selections can be made indepen-dently, then there is a total of mn ways to make the pair of selections. The principle extends tomore than one variable as illustrated by the next example.Example 1.3.1 Find the number of possible 8-bit bytes. An example of such a byte is 00010100.1.3. CALCULATING THE SIZE OF VARIOUS SETS11Solution: There are two ways to select the rst bit, and for each of those, there are two waysto select the second bit, and so on. So the number of possible bytes is 28. Each byte represents anumber in the range 0 to 255 in base two representation.The idea behind the principle of counting is more general than the principle of counting itself.Counting the number of ways to assign values to variables can often be done by the same approach,even if the choices are not independent, as long as the choice of one variable does not aect thenumber of choices possible for the second variable. This is illustrated in the following example.Example 1.3.2 Find the number of four letter sequences that can be obtained by ordering theletters A, B, C, D, without repetition. For example, ADCB is one possibility.Solution: There are four ways to select the rst letter of the sequence, and for each of those,there are three ways to select the second letter, and for each of those, two ways to select the thirdletter, and for each of those, one way to select the nal letter. So the number of possibilities is4 3 2 1 = 4! read four factorial. Here the possibilities for the second letter are slightly limitedby the rst letter, because the second letter must be dierent from the rst. Thus, the choices ofletter for each position are not independent. If the letter A is used in the rst position, for example,it cant be used in the second position. The problem is still quite simple, however, because thechoice of letter for the rst position does not aect the number of choices for the second position.And the rst two choices dont aect the number of choices for the third position.In general, the number of ways to order n distinct objects is n! = n n 1 2 1. An orderingof n distinct objects is called a permutation, so the number of permutations of n distinct objects isn!. The next example indicates how to deal with cases in which the objects are not distinct.Example 1.3.3 How many orderings of the letters AAB are there, if we dont distinguish betweenthe two As?Solution: There are three orderings: AAB, ABA, BAA. But if we put labels on the two As,writing them as A1 and A2, then the three letters become distinct, and so there are 3!, equal tosix, possible orderings:A1A2B A2A1BA1BA2 A2BA1BA1A2 BA2A1.These six orderings are written in pairs that would be identical to each other if the labels on the Aswere erased. For example, A1A2B and A2A1B would both become AAB if the labels were erased.For each ordering without labels, such as AAB, there are two orderings with labels, because thereare two ways to order the labels on the As.12CHAPTER 1. FOUNDATIONSExample 1.3.4 video How many orderings of the letters ILLINI are there, if we dont distinguishthe Is from each other and we dont distinguish the Ls from each other?3Solution: Since there are six letters, if the Is were labeled as I1, I2, I3 and the Ls were labeledas L1 and L2, then the six letters would be distinct and there would be 6!=720 orderings, includingI1I3L2N I2L1. Each ordering without labels, such as IILN IL corresponds to 3!  2 = 12 orderingswith labels, because there are 3! ways to label the three Is, and for each of those, there are twoways to label the Ls. Hence, there are 720/12 = 60 ways to form a sequence of six letters, usingthree identical Is, two identical Ls, and one N.Principle of Over Counting The above two examples illustrate the principle of over counting,which can be stated as follows: For an integer K  1, if each element of a set is counted K times,then the number of elements in the set is the total count divided by K.Example 1.3.5 Suppose nine basketball players are labeled by the letters A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H,and I. A lineup is a subset consisting of ve players. For example, A, B, D, E, H is a possi-ble lineup. The order of the letters in the lineup is not relevant. That is, A, B, D, E, H andA, B, E, D, H are considered to be the same. So how many distinct lineups are there?Solution:If the order did matter, the problem would be easier. There would be 9 ways to selectthe rst player, and for each of those, 8 ways to select the second player, 7 ways to select the third,6 ways to select the fourth, and 5 ways to select the fth. Thus, there are 9 8 7 6 5 ways to selectlineups in a given order. Since there are 5! ways to order a given lineup, each lineup would appear5! times in a list of all possible lineups with all possible orders. So, by the principle of over counting,the number of distinct lineups, with the order of a lineup not mattering, is 9  8  7  6  5/5! = 126.Example